L’Oreal zdecydowało się promować jeden ze swoich szamponów w sposób dość oryginalny. Twarz brytyjskiej nowej kampanii giganta, modelka Amena Khan, jest zawoalowana przez hidżab. Adrien Koskas, szef L’Oreal w Wielkiej Brytanii stwierdził w wywiadzie, że wybór modelki ma ucieleśniać zakładaną zmianę ze strony firmy.„Trzeba zapytać, dlaczego zawsze zakładamy, że kobiety, które nie pokazują swoich włosów, nie dbają o nie?” – pytała z kolei Amena Khan w wywiadzie dla Vogue’a. Kampania L’Oréal, skierowana wyłącznie na rynek brytyjski, daje jej możliwość obalania pewnych stereotypów, które uważa za bezpodstawne.Firma ma nadzieję, że ten wybór wywoła dyskusje. Ze swojej strony Amena Khan jest równie entuzjastyczna i nie boi się debat, które może wzbudzić jej hidżab. „Jeśli przesłanie jest autentyczne, a głos niesie to szczerze, nie możemy wątpić w przesłanie” – powiedziała.źródło: francais.rt.comMateriał chroniony prawem autorskim. Kopiowanie i wykorzystywanie treści opublikowanych na ndie.pl zabronione.
105 komentarzy do "L’Oréal zatrudnia modelkę w hidżabie do reklamy szamponu"                    Noz qrva, to moze zatrudnia łysego do reklamy lokowek albo slepego do reklamy lornetek?A teraz Armani powinien zatrudnic jakiegos Alibabe do reklamy Galabii, Kefii, Turbanu i innych Szarawarow.
Czekam teraz kiedy Chanell zacznie reklamowac specjalne perfumy, ktore przenikna nawet Czador.Perfumy z moczu wielblada?  Wszystko się jebie…Pamiętam Cindy Crawford jak reklamowała jakiś shampoon…Długie,rozpuszczone kobiece włosy,coś pięknego  
Tera hidżaby modne som  Albo inwalidów do reklamowania rolek i deskorolekPowinni jeszcze to reklamować: „Po naszym szamponie wyrośnie ci piękna szmata na głowie i już nigdy nie będziesz miała rozdwojonych końcówek”.Padłam!!!!Dokładnie o tym samym pomyślałam!Widać na poważnie chcą wprowadzić ten kalifat.Raven,nie wiem czy oglądałeś filmiki z egzekucji przez ISIS.W wielu przypadkach te patałachy nie potrafią przeciąć kręgosłupa szyjnego.Rąbią tą maczetą po szyi jakby strugali klocka z drewna 
Więc uważaj na „akwizytorów” bo mogą być niekompetentni  Podobna reklama już była, jeśli ktoś ma ochotę zobaczyć jak muzułmanka myje włosy, to proszę bardzo (yt) „MUZUŁMANKA W REKLAMIE SZAMPONU” a tu lux-torpeda, auto dla muzułmanek i wszystkie autka wysiadają (yt) „Samochody dla muzułmanek”  hahaha dooobreehahahaha dokładnie stary ! J**ane muslimy ku*waTo jak u nas. Celibat obowiązuje a księża obracają baby na plebanii aż furczy. A czasem i ministrantów. I jeszcze uczą głupich Polaczków moralności.Mówisz z własnego doświadczenia?    
Spadaj na złonet KODomito.Kinga jest taka ksiazka wydana w latach 90 pt: Bylem ksiedzem. Poczytaj sobie to zobaczysz jakie cuda wyprawiali 
Ksiadz jest tylko czlowiekiem, nie winduj go. Do tego mezczyzna. Rozumiem, ze jak zaklada koloratke to juz wszystkie ochoty, pragnienia odchodza i zostaje tylko modlitwa?Kinga
Prawosławie ma się dobrze,nawet na Białorusi budują nowe cerkwie,Koptowie mają fajną drugą połowę.Jak facet głupi to i celibat nie pomożeNo tak…A to co napisał,to oczywiste bzdury…Nie bądź Fenixie fanatykiem.W każdej społeczności trafiają się ścierwa i ludzie.Księża nie są wyjątkiem.Nie chciałbym tylko,by moje dziecko trafiło na ścierwo…Nie martw się. Nie trafi bo wśród księży jest najmniejszy odsetek pedofili. Uważaj na inne grupy „zawodowe” – zapomniałeś sprawę Samsona?
Zresztą pedofilia zostanie zapewne wkrótce zalegalizowana, środowiska lewicowe silnie lobbują za tym, na świecie jest ok 500 organizacji działających na rzecz pedofili. Potem przyjdzie czas na zoofilię i nekrofilię.Coś im wszczepili  albo dodali do wody..Mam na myśli wykonawców PLANU. Ktoś to wymyślił a reszta je mu z ręki,jak dzieci.Nawet przedszkolaki nie dałyby sobie wcisnąc takiej ciemnoty,jaką karmią Europę.Dzieci myślą logicznie …Wymyślili, oczywiście. Kto? Postmarksiści. Polecam wygooglować „Historia antykultury” – wszystko jest wyjaśnioneA jak ci wygooglam artykuł że krowy pochodzą z marsa to też uwierzysz bo piszą w internetach?Ty zapewne wierzysz we wszystko co powiedzą w mediach i pewnie jesteś wyznawcą TVN … Zero merytoryki tylko ataki …Mózg sobie wygoglaj.uwierz w to ludzie są głupio naiwni. Są tacy niestety!!!Na poważnie myślą o tym kalifacie. Najpierw usunięcie papieża żeby się przeciwnik duchowy nie sprzeciwiał, moda na brody w kulturze masowej, wpuszczenie kozojebów, teraz modelki w burkach a niedługo propagowanie islamskich strojów i stylu zycia.Logic  Już to wszystko jest. A teraz sprawdźcie jak macie się „modnie” nosić, żeby nie odbiegać od dziczy   art. „Nowa moda z USA „na imigranta” (reporters)L’Oréal zatrudnia modelkę w hidżabie do reklamy szamponu, śmiechu warte przez ten Hidżab to nawet włosów nie widać a może ona już jest łysa od tego szamponu>>>i wież tu reklamie !Alez keri, skad to oburzenie?
Pod majtkami rowniez wlosow nie widac, a reklamuje sie je (te majtki) w dowolnym medium i bez zadnych przeszkod.Archer, a może znasz jakiś szampon do tych włosów? Czy może być ten sam? Zwłaszcza interesuje mnie coś przeciw wypadaniu (włosów, rzecz jasna).jajecznyO to zapytaj sie, Pedro, naszych dam, uczestniczek tego Forum.Spróbuję jajecznego, może znajdę jakieś zbuki, będę pachniać jak bisurman.Z pokrzywy,z rzepy.Lepiej naturalne bo w pozostałych tylko chemia.Jestem po 50, a hery mam gęste i długie.Normalna osoba juz tego szamponu nie kupi, lemingi nawet nie zakumaja o co chodzi, lewactwo bedzie kupowac bo to cool, a wiekszosc muzulmanek i tak bedzie klaki myc mydlem (z braku wielbladziego moczu)Jak nam po tym szamponie wypadną wszystkie włosy to chustka będzie rzeczywiście niezbędna.No patrzaj, a ja myślał, że na łoju się raczej ślizga! Czego to się człowiek w Internetach nie dowie!Pedro Chubascos
A no widzisz na skórze głowy, włosach to inaczej działa. Włosy zrobią się lepkie, a co za tym idzie przyczepność hidżabu do nich będzie większa. Jakby myły baniaki codziennie, to tego efektu „przyczepności” by nie było Ja chrzescjanin nie będę kupować produktów tej firmy.Takie firmy powinny być skatalogowane, żeby wiadomo było czego nie kupować.Tu masz wizualizację, co do kogo należy:
http://zmianynaziemi.pl/sites/default/files/imagecache/Oryginalny/images/20131124_o10corps.jpg
https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%E2%80%99Or%C3%A9al#Marki_grupy_L’OréalJa nie kupuję l’oreala bo to badziew jest.Kupuję głównie polskie marki szamponów.Ja poganin te nie kupię produktów tej firmy.Nie  zdziwię  się , jeśli następnym razem politycznie poprawna  firma odzieżowa „wystartuje” z reklamą bielizny  przez kobiętę ubraną w burkę.A tak wyglądały Miss Arabii Saudyjskiej w 2015 roku.
http://www.memegen.es/meme/wlxup3To autentyk?Stawiam na tę w środku,ma ładne,zadbane włosy…Mi się podoba ta z lewej.A mnie kreci ta z prawej. Ma ladny wianuszek Już wiem ze na pewno ja i moja rodzina juz nie kupi żadnego produktu tego koncernu. Prosty sposób na to zeby bojkotowac przy okazji islam.Czyli nadszedł czas, aby przestać kupować produkty tej marki. Jakoś niespecjalnie mi żal – w końcu kosmetyków na rynku jest multum.To complete the subscription process, please click the link in the email we just sent you.orPlease provide your email address and we will send your password shortly.Please enter your email to complete registrationYour account is not active. We have sent an email to the address you provided with an activation link. Check your inbox, and click on the link to activate your account.The Bored Panda iOS app is live! Fight boredom with iPhones and iPads here.3.1Mviews 3 years ago by​ aroundtheworld  I’m a photographer from Romania that quit her job and started a new life. Two years ago I took my backpack, my camera and begun to travel around the globe, photographing hundreds of natural women surrounded by their culture.My project is called “The Atlas Of Beauty”, which is about our planet’s diversity shown through portraits of women. Traveling on a very low budget around 37 countries made me integrated in all kinds of environments. Now I can say that beauty is everywhere, and it’s not a matter of cosmetics or sizes but more about being yourself.Global trends make us look and behave the same, but we are all beautiful because we are different. In the end, beauty is in the eye of the beholder, and the beholder is always somebody else. My goal is to continue and take photos of women from each country of the globe, making “The Atlas Of Beauty” a mirror of our diverse societies and an inspiration for people that try to remain authentic.Now you can choose my next destinations and support me to continue through my Indiegogo Crowd Funding Campaign.More info: indiegogo.com | Facebook | Instagram | Tumblr                                                    Anyone can write on Bored Panda.Start writing! Bored Panda works best if you switch to our Android app  Bored Panda works better on our iPhone app! 3.1MviewsSubscribe to our newsletterDownload our iOS appDownload our Android appThis lazy panda forgot to write something about itself.They are still very much within the Western stereotype of beauty. I'd like to see more African looking women and different sizes and shapesDid you miss the part where she says she wants to continue going to other countries? Why treat it like it is a slight?Why?Can't believe how frustrated you peopele are!! artist owns the message to her creation. may be the message is modern women are everywhere..also can't believe you are all super specialists on how to organize an artistic project like this.. a recipe for racial or for weight etc.Sadly, majority seems to be here to judge, criticize and showcase the lack of their geographical knowledge....Thank you, Ionana. You seem to be the only sane person in this discussion.Yeah i agree. They have western face ideal. Like high cheekbones and plump lips.And what world are high cheek bones and plump lips associated with the West??? They have always been a people of color (aka nonwest) trait.And they're all thin like models! Notone plump girl!I'm from Tunisia that is in north Africa.I'm fat and I'm way far from being ugly.you're wrong twice: the fat-america and the fat-ugly thingsFull lips is not a european characteristic silly.SaharnazShaheen you are a dumbass, thats how girls look in the rest of the world, only United States have so much fat asses ugly girls.Comments saying non-Americans are prettier than Americans are funny since most families in the US have foreign bloodlines & ethnic features.Ah, actually high cheekbones and full lips are associated more with indigenous ethnicities.This comment is hidden. Click here to view.There's not such a thing like western face ideal, it's just that European faces are more beautiful than the others. Sorry, accept it.You've always got this people, searching around the internet with shaking hands, desperate to find something to be offended by.Average face, normal body size = healthy = stereotypical beauty. You don't see fat people? Well you also don't see disfigured people.actually before i moved to england i had never seen that many fat people.. just saying not all countries have obesity commonThis comment is hidden. Click here to view.Seriously? You're comparing being overweight with being disfigured?I was planning to photograph sport cars, but I'm afraid someone will ask me why I didn't included his Ford Pinto!and you left all rusty cars out on purpose you cis male racist. Real cars have curvesThat was my exact same thought. They all look like American supermodels.Yes all shapes and sizes are beautiful, but NOT all are healthy. Being overweight or obese is unhealthy, just like being underweight isIsn't Ethiopia in Africa? There are 2 pictures from thereMaybe she hadn't had the opportunity to visit every country on planet Earth!!Did you see how different the two looked? The 2 sides of Ethiopia.https://www.facebook.com/MihaelaNorocPhoto/photos/pb.549556541752411.-2207520000.1424139259./762810463760350/?type=3&theater Here.Happy now?hahahahhMore? There isn't a *single* shot from a country in Africa... she skipped an entire *continent*.Ethiopa is in Africa.Check her Instagram, it's Bored Panda that skipped the women of colour ;)Ethiopia was in there...where is Omo Valley, Ethiopia ??? DAAAHlook to her instagram account and you'll find there.Ethiopia is in Africa you knowEthiopia. DuurrrrrrEthiopia is in Africa. Look at a mapHi David, the author didn't skip the continent, actually it was one of our new interns who accidentally missed it. We've already fixed it!Isn't Ethiopia in Africa? There are 2 pictures from thereThere are two shots of women from different ethiopian ethnic groups here..,and give the photographer a break. Thus is a dangerous continent!And I thought Ethiopia is in AfricaBlame it on the intern... I would have just let it go instead of calling out one of your own. :)There were two from Ethopia - I think that counts as Africa @DavidGThere is a girl from Ethiopia however I agree with you. She could of found many beautiful women if she had gone to different countires.Ethopia is in Africa, she has 2 women from Ethopia.so let me guess Äethiopia is in the Netherlands,isn*t it?LOLWe shouldn't "hate" the geographically challenged individuals whom may have never stepped foot out of their own back yards!Woww ,we are very bad at geography :DEthiopia isn´t in Africa?Two Ethiopian Women, one more coastal and upland, the other from the south near Kenya. They are ethnic and culturally unique.Ethiopia isn't in Africa? Learn to read a map.Not quite ... just one country - Ethiopia258 replies saying "ethiopia is in africa duuuuh". I think he understood it the first time...Dude I can't believe how many people wondered if Ethiopia was in Africa. Do y'all have highschool diplomas? What'd you even learn in school?ethiopia.LOL they "fixed it" by adding one african. ridiculous. and i love that the person had to be reminded that africa has beautiful women. shameEven when there actually are 2 shots, it´s like she got 35 more, so... idk, just sayin...There is ALWAYS one. Guess that is you Lisa. Well done *claps*for rea! how bad is your geography?Where is Ethiopia???Ethiopia is in Africa. There are two women from Ethiopia featured.there are girls from Etiopia and I guess it's in Africa...You are not fair There's a lady from Ethiopia which is in Africa if I remember well!Isn't Ethiopia in Africa? There was one for there :)Last time I checked Ethiopia was in Africa...There's one woman from Ethiopia.Ethiopia`s in Africa and there are two photos from there. Africa`s a hard and expensive country to get to and around!This comment is hidden. Click here to view.Brazil... Thats in africa. Its thereThat's exactly what I was thinking!I totally agreed! They all look like modelsthey dont all look like models they are all just normal different sizes, different cultures and ages all captured very beautifullyWhy don't you just give the social justice warrioring a rest and be happy that you and other white women are considered the most beautiful by white men."The beauty is in the eye of the beholder" - and this proverb is mentioned in the introduction)- So it's not "western stereotype" or mandatory in "different sizes" - just what the artist see and what he liked and considered worthy. Maybe it's just you that are out of "western stereotype of beauty" and that are obsessed with it.I agree I was hoping a less literate form of beauty. These could be contestants from Miss World or Miss Universe.What are you on about? Beauty is visual therefore neither literate nor illiterate which are verbal.The instagram does have a well balanced representation from the artist bored Panda doesn't booooo Bored Panda! I'm out!Hi Kevin, the author didn't skip Africa. Unfortunately, it was one of our new interns who accidentally missed it. We've already fixed it!This comment is hidden. Click here to view.how do you accidentally miss a continent?STFU. You are one of those people who can never be pleased. Want to see Africans, pick up National geographic or get it online! In the meantime, you should thank the photographer for sharing the fruits of his travels.STFU. You are one of those people who can never be pleased!Well then go take your own photos.whyAnd Arabic beauty too...fatty detectedYou are just jealous, get over it ...yes, but she's western, that's her choice of beauties.I agree with you Lisa. They all seem to have big eyes and plump lips and could easily be put on the runway at fashion week.Hi Lisa! I thought the same thing you did. She took women with big eyes and plump lips that could easily be part of fashion week.Agreed! Right on!Stop triggering me with your ham-delusionBy no stereotype of beauty is the sjw standard upheldThere's not such a thing like Western stereotype of beauty, it's just that European faces are more beautiful than the others. Accept it.There is obviously such a thing as a western stereotype of beauty.@Aleigha Ginyard factually it is not more dangerous that Latin America, but yes western stereotypes, Africa is a "dangerous country"Thanks you made my day ;-) I was thinking of what to repli :-)agreed, Except about two or three girls that they all obeyed the western stereotype of beauty.This comment is hidden. Click here to view.Same with other eastern countries. I see only a few Asians here.This comment is hidden. Click here to view.Great, western stereotype rock. Why African women? Why not Asian? they represent the most numerous ethnic gr. Why not Australian Aboriginal?There are asians. Also its kinda hard to get every single human ethnicity. Travel does cost money.why not Arabs?The photographer did photograph some women from Asia and Africa as well. It was our mistake that we didn't include them. Sorry!Sorry we can't see much beauty in Arab women. They hardly show their faces but I belive that below those tons of fabric lie beautiful women.i guess only thin women are beautiful.and young!don't know if you're being sarcastic or not, but the photos are great and also the women that have been photographed.I completely agree, all these women are stick thin, not to say that isn't beautifu, but different body types should be shown as wellDefine "stick-thin". All the girls look quite healthy and fit to me. "Stick-thin" implies they look sick, which they don't.As in .. they're not hideously overweight? These women are not stick thin, they're a healthy weight & beautiful. Great photosHow are they stick thin? Stop body shaming thin women. Just because they are beautiful and a healthy weight. Nobody wants to see fat.You go and take photos then.JeezzWell overweight people are objectively unattractive.no, pretty much factually unattractive.Yes. FAT = UGLY.
This is the plain truth.
The rest is crappy positive thinking and Marketing for fat people.Not every fat girl is ugly and not every thin girl is beatiful, sad but true. Pretty face means more than size.Actually, fat is just fat. Ugly is subjective. For instance, I find the picture on your profile repulsive; someone else may not.Whoa. I've never seen such blatant hatred. Vincenzo, you need some love and light. Good luck.Fat women are not set as an example because indicates not healthy lifestyle, it's not natural to be fat. It happens for various reasons.Curvy 'Rubenesque' women you mention were curvaceous ,buxom, with broad child bearing hips.
NOT the lardbeasts of the 'Fat Pride' movement.in some African cultures, overweight women is a sign of wealth, good health and fertility.Fat women are beautiful too.No, it's all about the beauty standards and trends. During the Renaissance, round shaped women were considered beautiful.I didn't say they're ugly. Just that they are not healthy and it is not a natural thing to be fat. I happens because of illness or lazyness.You CANNOT tell someone's "lifestyle" by looking. If that were the case we'd be able to printout pedophilesWho says it's not natural to be fat? For a significant percentage of the population, and in many parts of the world, it IS natural.Also all the men either do not want to see only the thin or young women.Being "fat" absolutely does NOT indicate the lack of a healthy lifestyle! Some people are naturally built larger than others.Listen, VirtualAthlete, I'm fat but I am absolutely NOT DISGUSTING! I'm a very pretty woman with a kind heart!You have fat, you are not fat. You have fingernails, you are not fingernails. Let that sink in will ya.Thanks for mentioning this! Seriously the second people hear anything about fat people you cant help but going into cultural/ethical rage!This comment is hidden. Click here to view.But thin women are healthy? Heard somthing about anorexia? These women hate themselves. If you consider that healthy...This comment is hidden. Click here to view.Fat women are disgustingYes. They are. Instead of being jealous, why don't you just go waddle over to the gym and stop complaining? :3Some of these women are far from being thin. Just how fat do they need to be to cover your own insecurities?Far from being stick-figure thin, you mean. They're all pretty thin (and that's fine, I just can't agree with calling these girls fat).And in order to be beautiful, women have to wear make-up! I mean, they are beautiful, but I would have preferred to see their natural beautyMany of them did not wear makeup. I personally know many women who are much more beautiful without the stuff.Hardly any of the women are wearing make-up! Those that are are within their cultural norms.This is the truthhttps://www.facebook.com/MihaelaNorocPhoto/photos/pb.549556541752411.-2207520000.1424139259./762810463760350/?type=3&theater Here.Happy now?Yes, and all the desperate ladies here who are frustrated about it and who say that "fat is beautiful too", should just loose some weight in order to get rid of their complex. :)Yes, that's accurate. You've guessed correctly. Go do a jumping jack you fuck.Not thin, but healthy weight. No man alive wants to have fat woman, who is just too lazy to eat healthy or go to gym.What a horribly sexist comment. Is not a women's job to be 'had' by a man. There are many overweight men that are lazy.This ^ All the wayYou guess correctly. No fat chicks!I wouldnt say that, as he also did other pictures.. but I know that butthurt and bitter ones are mostly not because it can be seen in their faces.This comment is hidden. Click here to view.What's with the nagging about thin and fat women? Every woman wants to be thin , no matter what she says.In what world do you live? Ideal body shapes and sizes change all over the world, just like beauty standards.All these hams in the comments are mad that there isn't a disgusting butter beast used as example of a beautiful womanWell believe me or not my sister wishes to get fatter ;-)Seriously? You honestly say you can speak for every woman? Fair enough, just don't speak for me. I preferred it when I had a fuller figure.You comment is so damn ignorant. Women in the past years actually wanted to get heavier, it was the standard of beauty.Great shots. I would have like to seen women of varying ages, sizes, and "beauty". Photography is easier with young "pretty" girls.The project is called "The Atlas of Beauty".As seen by the author. You may like it or not. It is not "The Atlas of politic corectness".Then go on a trip and tak your own photographsWhat is wrong with you? It is normal to criticize art, that is what art is, subjective, like it or dislike it. Stop pampering those you likeThanks Edgar. One more normal person I found after long scrolling down in this "expert" discussion....This comment is hidden. Click here to view.Nice comeback. Are you five years old or something?Why? Beauty is quite objective. It's not meant to pander to peoples desire to feel good about themselves.she did state in another site that 'She decided to choose only one age group and gender — her own — because she thought this would allow both her and her audience to more easily compare the diverse faces.'So true, they think skinny is what is cute.I thought the same. The photos are stunning but older woman and larger women can be beautiful too. Her definition of beauty is quite narrow- more like a 'Global modelling scout' really...Get off her Judy's back. She's responding to the comment: what do you think? She's sharing what she thinks! Sheesh!They are still very much within the Western stereotype of beauty. I'd like to see more African looking women and different sizes and shapesDid you miss the part where she says she wants to continue going to other countries? Why treat it like it is a slight?Why?Can't believe how frustrated you peopele are!! artist owns the message to her creation. may be the message is modern women are everywhere..also can't believe you are all super specialists on how to organize an artistic project like this.. a recipe for racial or for weight etc.Sadly, majority seems to be here to judge, criticize and showcase the lack of their geographical knowledge....Thank you, Ionana. You seem to be the only sane person in this discussion.Yeah i agree. They have western face ideal. Like high cheekbones and plump lips.And what world are high cheek bones and plump lips associated with the West??? They have always been a people of color (aka nonwest) trait.And they're all thin like models! Notone plump girl!I'm from Tunisia that is in north Africa.I'm fat and I'm way far from being ugly.you're wrong twice: the fat-america and the fat-ugly thingsFull lips is not a european characteristic silly.SaharnazShaheen you are a dumbass, thats how girls look in the rest of the world, only United States have so much fat asses ugly girls.Comments saying non-Americans are prettier than Americans are funny since most families in the US have foreign bloodlines & ethnic features.Ah, actually high cheekbones and full lips are associated more with indigenous ethnicities.This comment is hidden. Click here to view.There's not such a thing like western face ideal, it's just that European faces are more beautiful than the others. Sorry, accept it.You've always got this people, searching around the internet with shaking hands, desperate to find something to be offended by.Average face, normal body size = healthy = stereotypical beauty. You don't see fat people? Well you also don't see disfigured people.actually before i moved to england i had never seen that many fat people.. just saying not all countries have obesity commonThis comment is hidden. Click here to view.Seriously? You're comparing being overweight with being disfigured?I was planning to photograph sport cars, but I'm afraid someone will ask me why I didn't included his Ford Pinto!and you left all rusty cars out on purpose you cis male racist. Real cars have curvesThat was my exact same thought. They all look like American supermodels.Yes all shapes and sizes are beautiful, but NOT all are healthy. Being overweight or obese is unhealthy, just like being underweight isIsn't Ethiopia in Africa? There are 2 pictures from thereMaybe she hadn't had the opportunity to visit every country on planet Earth!!Did you see how different the two looked? The 2 sides of Ethiopia.https://www.facebook.com/MihaelaNorocPhoto/photos/pb.549556541752411.-2207520000.1424139259./762810463760350/?type=3&theater Here.Happy now?hahahahhMore? There isn't a *single* shot from a country in Africa... she skipped an entire *continent*.Ethiopa is in Africa.Check her Instagram, it's Bored Panda that skipped the women of colour ;)Ethiopia was in there...where is Omo Valley, Ethiopia ??? DAAAHlook to her instagram account and you'll find there.Ethiopia is in Africa you knowEthiopia. DuurrrrrrEthiopia is in Africa. Look at a mapHi David, the author didn't skip the continent, actually it was one of our new interns who accidentally missed it. We've already fixed it!Isn't Ethiopia in Africa? There are 2 pictures from thereThere are two shots of women from different ethiopian ethnic groups here..,and give the photographer a break. Thus is a dangerous continent!And I thought Ethiopia is in AfricaBlame it on the intern... I would have just let it go instead of calling out one of your own. :)There were two from Ethopia - I think that counts as Africa @DavidGThere is a girl from Ethiopia however I agree with you. She could of found many beautiful women if she had gone to different countires.Ethopia is in Africa, she has 2 women from Ethopia.so let me guess Äethiopia is in the Netherlands,isn*t it?LOLWe shouldn't "hate" the geographically challenged individuals whom may have never stepped foot out of their own back yards!Woww ,we are very bad at geography :DEthiopia isn´t in Africa?Two Ethiopian Women, one more coastal and upland, the other from the south near Kenya. They are ethnic and culturally unique.Ethiopia isn't in Africa? Learn to read a map.Not quite ... just one country - Ethiopia258 replies saying "ethiopia is in africa duuuuh". I think he understood it the first time...Dude I can't believe how many people wondered if Ethiopia was in Africa. Do y'all have highschool diplomas? What'd you even learn in school?ethiopia.LOL they "fixed it" by adding one african. ridiculous. and i love that the person had to be reminded that africa has beautiful women. shameEven when there actually are 2 shots, it´s like she got 35 more, so... idk, just sayin...There is ALWAYS one. Guess that is you Lisa. Well done *claps*for rea! how bad is your geography?Where is Ethiopia???Ethiopia is in Africa. There are two women from Ethiopia featured.there are girls from Etiopia and I guess it's in Africa...You are not fair There's a lady from Ethiopia which is in Africa if I remember well!Isn't Ethiopia in Africa? There was one for there :)Last time I checked Ethiopia was in Africa...There's one woman from Ethiopia.Ethiopia`s in Africa and there are two photos from there. Africa`s a hard and expensive country to get to and around!This comment is hidden. Click here to view.Brazil... Thats in africa. Its thereThat's exactly what I was thinking!I totally agreed! They all look like modelsthey dont all look like models they are all just normal different sizes, different cultures and ages all captured very beautifullyWhy don't you just give the social justice warrioring a rest and be happy that you and other white women are considered the most beautiful by white men."The beauty is in the eye of the beholder" - and this proverb is mentioned in the introduction)- So it's not "western stereotype" or mandatory in "different sizes" - just what the artist see and what he liked and considered worthy. Maybe it's just you that are out of "western stereotype of beauty" and that are obsessed with it.I agree I was hoping a less literate form of beauty. These could be contestants from Miss World or Miss Universe.What are you on about? Beauty is visual therefore neither literate nor illiterate which are verbal.The instagram does have a well balanced representation from the artist bored Panda doesn't booooo Bored Panda! I'm out!Hi Kevin, the author didn't skip Africa. Unfortunately, it was one of our new interns who accidentally missed it. We've already fixed it!This comment is hidden. Click here to view.how do you accidentally miss a continent?STFU. You are one of those people who can never be pleased. Want to see Africans, pick up National geographic or get it online! In the meantime, you should thank the photographer for sharing the fruits of his travels.STFU. You are one of those people who can never be pleased!Well then go take your own photos.whyAnd Arabic beauty too...fatty detectedYou are just jealous, get over it ...yes, but she's western, that's her choice of beauties.I agree with you Lisa. They all seem to have big eyes and plump lips and could easily be put on the runway at fashion week.Hi Lisa! I thought the same thing you did. She took women with big eyes and plump lips that could easily be part of fashion week.Agreed! Right on!Stop triggering me with your ham-delusionBy no stereotype of beauty is the sjw standard upheldThere's not such a thing like Western stereotype of beauty, it's just that European faces are more beautiful than the others. Accept it.There is obviously such a thing as a western stereotype of beauty.@Aleigha Ginyard factually it is not more dangerous that Latin America, but yes western stereotypes, Africa is a "dangerous country"Thanks you made my day ;-) I was thinking of what to repli :-)agreed, Except about two or three girls that they all obeyed the western stereotype of beauty.This comment is hidden. Click here to view.Same with other eastern countries. I see only a few Asians here.This comment is hidden. Click here to view.Great, western stereotype rock. Why African women? Why not Asian? they represent the most numerous ethnic gr. Why not Australian Aboriginal?There are asians. Also its kinda hard to get every single human ethnicity. Travel does cost money.why not Arabs?The photographer did photograph some women from Asia and Africa as well. It was our mistake that we didn't include them. Sorry!Sorry we can't see much beauty in Arab women. They hardly show their faces but I belive that below those tons of fabric lie beautiful women.i guess only thin women are beautiful.and young!don't know if you're being sarcastic or not, but the photos are great and also the women that have been photographed.I completely agree, all these women are stick thin, not to say that isn't beautifu, but different body types should be shown as wellDefine "stick-thin". All the girls look quite healthy and fit to me. "Stick-thin" implies they look sick, which they don't.As in .. they're not hideously overweight? These women are not stick thin, they're a healthy weight & beautiful. Great photosHow are they stick thin? Stop body shaming thin women. Just because they are beautiful and a healthy weight. Nobody wants to see fat.You go and take photos then.JeezzWell overweight people are objectively unattractive.no, pretty much factually unattractive.Yes. FAT = UGLY.
This is the plain truth.
The rest is crappy positive thinking and Marketing for fat people.Not every fat girl is ugly and not every thin girl is beatiful, sad but true. Pretty face means more than size.Actually, fat is just fat. Ugly is subjective. For instance, I find the picture on your profile repulsive; someone else may not.Whoa. I've never seen such blatant hatred. Vincenzo, you need some love and light. Good luck.Fat women are not set as an example because indicates not healthy lifestyle, it's not natural to be fat. It happens for various reasons.Curvy 'Rubenesque' women you mention were curvaceous ,buxom, with broad child bearing hips.
NOT the lardbeasts of the 'Fat Pride' movement.in some African cultures, overweight women is a sign of wealth, good health and fertility.Fat women are beautiful too.No, it's all about the beauty standards and trends. During the Renaissance, round shaped women were considered beautiful.I didn't say they're ugly. Just that they are not healthy and it is not a natural thing to be fat. I happens because of illness or lazyness.You CANNOT tell someone's "lifestyle" by looking. If that were the case we'd be able to printout pedophilesWho says it's not natural to be fat? For a significant percentage of the population, and in many parts of the world, it IS natural.Also all the men either do not want to see only the thin or young women.Being "fat" absolutely does NOT indicate the lack of a healthy lifestyle! Some people are naturally built larger than others.Listen, VirtualAthlete, I'm fat but I am absolutely NOT DISGUSTING! I'm a very pretty woman with a kind heart!You have fat, you are not fat. You have fingernails, you are not fingernails. Let that sink in will ya.Thanks for mentioning this! Seriously the second people hear anything about fat people you cant help but going into cultural/ethical rage!This comment is hidden. Click here to view.But thin women are healthy? Heard somthing about anorexia? These women hate themselves. If you consider that healthy...This comment is hidden. Click here to view.Fat women are disgustingYes. They are. Instead of being jealous, why don't you just go waddle over to the gym and stop complaining? :3Some of these women are far from being thin. Just how fat do they need to be to cover your own insecurities?Far from being stick-figure thin, you mean. They're all pretty thin (and that's fine, I just can't agree with calling these girls fat).And in order to be beautiful, women have to wear make-up! I mean, they are beautiful, but I would have preferred to see their natural beautyMany of them did not wear makeup. I personally know many women who are much more beautiful without the stuff.Hardly any of the women are wearing make-up! Those that are are within their cultural norms.This is the truthhttps://www.facebook.com/MihaelaNorocPhoto/photos/pb.549556541752411.-2207520000.1424139259./762810463760350/?type=3&theater Here.Happy now?Yes, and all the desperate ladies here who are frustrated about it and who say that "fat is beautiful too", should just loose some weight in order to get rid of their complex. :)Yes, that's accurate. You've guessed correctly. Go do a jumping jack you fuck.Not thin, but healthy weight. No man alive wants to have fat woman, who is just too lazy to eat healthy or go to gym.What a horribly sexist comment. Is not a women's job to be 'had' by a man. There are many overweight men that are lazy.This ^ All the wayYou guess correctly. No fat chicks!I wouldnt say that, as he also did other pictures.. but I know that butthurt and bitter ones are mostly not because it can be seen in their faces.This comment is hidden. Click here to view.What's with the nagging about thin and fat women? Every woman wants to be thin , no matter what she says.In what world do you live? Ideal body shapes and sizes change all over the world, just like beauty standards.All these hams in the comments are mad that there isn't a disgusting butter beast used as example of a beautiful womanWell believe me or not my sister wishes to get fatter ;-)Seriously? You honestly say you can speak for every woman? Fair enough, just don't speak for me. I preferred it when I had a fuller figure.You comment is so damn ignorant. Women in the past years actually wanted to get heavier, it was the standard of beauty.Great shots. I would have like to seen women of varying ages, sizes, and "beauty". Photography is easier with young "pretty" girls.The project is called "The Atlas of Beauty".As seen by the author. You may like it or not. It is not "The Atlas of politic corectness".Then go on a trip and tak your own photographsWhat is wrong with you? It is normal to criticize art, that is what art is, subjective, like it or dislike it. Stop pampering those you likeThanks Edgar. One more normal person I found after long scrolling down in this "expert" discussion....This comment is hidden. Click here to view.Nice comeback. Are you five years old or something?Why? Beauty is quite objective. It's not meant to pander to peoples desire to feel good about themselves.she did state in another site that 'She decided to choose only one age group and gender — her own — because she thought this would allow both her and her audience to more easily compare the diverse faces.'So true, they think skinny is what is cute.I thought the same. The photos are stunning but older woman and larger women can be beautiful too. Her definition of beauty is quite narrow- more like a 'Global modelling scout' really...Get off her Judy's back. She's responding to the comment: what do you think? She's sharing what she thinks! Sheesh!To complete the subscription process, please click the link in the email we just sent you.Subscribe to our top storiesPrenumerata cyfrowa NTOW najnowszym wydaniu plus.nto.pl15artykułów
fot. sxc






        29 sierpnia 2010
              

        29.08.2010
              
              Aktualizacja:
        28 sierpnia 2010 20:45
28.08.2010 20:45





                      Zobacz dzisiejsze wydanie internetowe Nowej Trybuny Opolskiej
                  
©fot. sxc Nielimitowany dostęp do wszystkich treści, bez inwazyjnych reklam.Rozpowszechnianie niniejszego artykułu możliwe jest tylko i wyłącznie
              zgodnie z postanowieniami „Regulaminu korzystania z artykułów prasowych” i po wcześniejszym uiszczeniu należności, zgodnie z cennikiem.
            Forum tylko dla zalogowanych.
miro 29 stycznia, 02:45 
                Jestem brzydki jak noc, wysoki, szczuply.. jednak mam powodzenie, nadrabiam charakterem. Jestem wesoly, otwarty, odwarzny i lubie sie smiac. Brzydale nie zalamywac sie i nie narzekac na pewno macie w sobie cos czym nadrobicie. Odrobina wiary !                 
Ktarzyna R 12 stycznia, 14:35 
                   To znaczy że masz charakter do doopy, prawdziwa miłość nie rodzi się z oczu ale z głębi serca, to wewnętrzne piękno jest najważniejsze, a jeżeli nie wierzysz to upieraj się dalej nad tym że jesteś brzydki i dlatego jesteś sam. Nie ma brzydkich ludzi, są brzydkie charaktery.                  
Ktoś 11 stycznia, 23:27 
                Temat badany przeze mnie.Kilka razy. Sprawdzane było nastawienie do ludzi i reakcje oraz decyzyjność innych w zależności od nazwijmy to "level visual aspect"Wniosek:Dzieci tylko patrzące na  wygląd to poprostu niedorosłość i do pewnego stopnia akceptowalna ale gdy u dorosłych to [...]                 
Draken 23 września, 21:49 
                Mam 27 lat i każdy z moich znajomych jak i rodziny dziwi się, dlaczego nie mam jeszcze żadnej kobiety. heh... cwaniaki. Dobrze im się wymądrzać, jak mają ładną twarz i w ogóle. Zresztą po co mi dziewczyna, skoro brzydkiej i tak nie chciałbym mieć, a u żadnej ładnej to i tak nie [...]                 
Gość  9 sierpnia, 20:51 
                jakby* sorry                  





tel.: 77 44 32 500
twojesprawy@nto.pltel.: 77 44 32 522
reklama@nto.plNowa Trybuna Opolska jest częścią:

Pro Media Sp. z o.o.
                 informuje, że wszystkie treści ukazujące się w serwisie Nowa Trybuna Opolska podlegają ochronie.
        Dowiedz się więcej.
        Jesteś zainteresowany kupnem treści? Dowiedz się więcej.
      © 2001 - 2018 Pro Media Sp. z.o.o.Monitorujemy anonimowo aktywność na stronie, korzystamy z cookies i local storage.Bez zmiany ustawień pliki są zapisywane na urządzeniu. Więcej przeczytasz tutaj.
SEEDMAGAZINE.COM
May 15, 2018


Follow us on Twitter »
Brain & Behavior / by Maggie Wittlin / Attractive faces are pleasing because they're easy for the brain to process.

Average of 15 “attractive” female faces. Credit: The Face Research Lab
In the late 1870s, scientist and eugenicist Sir Francis Galton developed an image of the prototypical “face of crime” by creating composite photos of men convicted of serious offenses. Though Galton failed to discover anything abnormal in his composite criminal faces, he did find that the resulting visages were shockingly handsome. (The middle face here is the product of 14 criminals.) Studies have since established that people find prototypical faces—those with average features—to be attractive.
A paper published in the September issue of the journal Psychological Science proposes a new explanation for this phenomenon: Prototypical faces are pleasing because they’re easy for the brain to process.“There is always this question in psychology or in experimental aesthetics: Is there some sort of psychological principle that can explain a lot of what people find attractive, not only in terms of faces or people, but things in general?” said Piotr Winkielman, a psychologist at the University of California, San Diego and the study’s lead author. “This idea of ease-of-processing seems like a good candidate.”To test this hypothesis, Winkielman and his team created a geometric pattern. They then made random variations in the prototype and showed the resulting patterns to subjects, who were asked to assign them to certain visual categories. The researchers also measured the subjects’ subtle facial responses to determine whether they were responding positively or negatively to each pattern. The researchers found that the response was more positive to patterns that were close to the prototypical pattern. Furthermore, the more similar a pattern was to the prototype, the more quickly subjects could categorize it. Such speed indicates that patterns close to the prototype were easier for subjects to process, Winkielman said. When the researchers controlled for these differences in processing time, the correlation between attractiveness and similarity to the prototype disappeared, suggesting that processing ease itself can in fact cause objects to be attractive.“The principle finding is that you like a pattern to the extent that you classify the pattern fast,” Winkielman said.The authors challenge the popular idea from evolutionary psychology that people find prototypical faces attractive because average features indicate good health.One psychologist specializing in faces said he is skeptical that data from responses to computer patterns can be applied directly to questions of facial attractiveness.“Not using faces limits conclusions that can be made about face preferences, particularly given that humans are proposed to possess specialized face processing mechanisms,” said the researcher, who responded under condition of anonymity, via email.The researcher also said that the authors’ conclusions, even if they are accurate, do not necessarily conflict with an evolutionary explanation for the beauty-in-averageness effect.“The evolutionary argument, as I see it, hasn’t proposed a mechanism but a selection pressure—averagness of faces is related to actual health, for example, and choosing healthy partners is important,” he wrote. “If we choose healthy partners because our visual system picks them out due to perceptual fluency, then we may still have an evolved mechanism to prefer averageness.”Winkielman acknowledges that averageness does not fully account for human attractiveness—after all, sexually coded features such as lips often follow the maxim “bigger is better.” But, he notes that his easier-is-better theory may extend beyond attractiveness.“When I talk on the phone, it’s very easy to explain this idea of connection between ease and liking, because when people cannot hear me well, or they think my explanation is confusing, people get somewhat irritated,” he said. “So it’s very easy to understand how complexity of processing is connected to our emotional responses.”
 Originally published October 8, 2006 Tags neuroscience research
Share this
Facebook
Twitter
Stumbleupon
Reddit
Email + Morea2a_linkname="Beauty is in the Processing-Time of the Beholder &sect; SEEDMAGAZINE.COM";a2a_linkurl="http://seedmagazine.com/content/article/beauty_is_in_the_processing-time_of_the_beholder/";a2a_onclick=1;a2a_show_title=1;a2a_hide_embeds=0;a2a_prioritize=["aim","blogger_post","delicious","facebook","gmail","linkedin","newsvine","slashdot","sphere","stumbleupon","tumblr","twitter","yahoo_buzz","digg","friendfeed","livejournal","reddit","technorati_favorites","typepad_post","wordpress","yahoo_bookmarks"];
John Rinn, snowboarder, skateboarder, and  “genomic origamist,” on why we should dumpster-dive in our genomes and the inspiration of a middle-distance runner.The second most common element in the universe is increasingly rare on Earth—except, for now, in America.Renowned planetary scientist James Kasting on the odds of finding another Earth-like planet and the power of science fiction.Video: conversations with leading scientists and thinkers on fundamental issues and ideas at the edge of science and culture.Video: Seed revisits the questions C.P. Snow raised about science and the humanities 50 years by asking six great thinkers, Where are we now? Audio slideshow: Justine Cooper's large-format photographs of the collections behind the walls of the American Museum of Natural History.In 2009, we are celebrating curiosity and creativity with a dynamic look at the very best ideas that give us reason for optimism.In this installment of Revolutionary Minds, five people who use the new tools of science to educate, illuminate, and engage.Leading scientists, designers, and architects on ideas like the personal genome, brain visualization, generative architecture, and collective design.Seed examines the radical changes within science itself by assessing the evolving role of scientists and the shifting dimensions of scientific practice.On the trail of the haunts, homes, and posts of knowledge, from the laboratory to the field.Witness the science. Stunning photographic portfolios from the pages of Seed magazine. About SEEDMAGAZINE.COM  |  Advertise with SEEDMAGAZINE.COM  |  Privacy Policy  |  Terms & Conditions  |  Contact UsSEEDMAGAZINE.COM by Seed Media Group.  ©2005-2015 Seed Media Group LLC.  All Rights Reserved.Sites by Seed Media Group:  Seed Media Group  |  ScienceBlogs    |  Research Blogging  |  SEEDMAGAZINE.COMAfter being introduced to the charms of Masako, above, even 2ch’s substantial contingent of JK worshippers has conceded that mature women can be exceedingly attractive indeed.Most famously of late, 43-year-old model, mother (her eldest daughter is actually 20) and housewife Masako Mizutani, said to “have the looks of an 18-year-old”:









According to reports, “she spends 5 hours a day on skincare.”2ch is currently deleting all their  junior idol stashes to make space for more of her pictures:“Take me you old hag!”“She’s beautiful isn’t she?”“Let me have go, old woman!”“18 is pushing it. She looks 24 or so.”“She’s pretty but doesn’t look 18!”“If she really spends 5 hours a day on skin care I pity her poor husband.”“This is creepy! Leave looking young to the young!”“But what if you scrape off all that makeup?”“Don’t believe photographs.”“Watch out for these women, they know every trick in the book for looking good in photographs. Movie please.”“Seriously? 27-32”“If she was your mother…”“Imagine taking a bath with her as your mother.”“I bet her husband is proud.”“She looks a bit aged in these, but still hot.”



“The wrinkles on her neck are 40.”“Makeup is good, isn’t it?”“In this age of Photoshop, I don’t trust anything but an untouched photo.”“If you guys spent the time you spend on 2ch on skincare instead, you’d all be hot guys. Give up 2ch now.”“She’s great. But I wouldn’t want to marry some idiot who spends 5 hours a day on skincare.”All this has prompted a great deal of searching for more ageless belles:42:











43:39:

42:







41 & 46:51:48:
And then there is this 44-year-old lady who rather spoils it all:



Japan’s mass media has rather nastily taken to calling these older ladies who maintain their looks “bimajo” or “beautiful witches” – although looking at the last photographs this may perhaps be justified…Comment 

gotta love cougars and milfswell, 40 is still a good age for Milfsmy girlfriend is 80 but looks 18….you lose!!!!!!!!!!!DOnt care what she is, hot with great personality=want her. If she’s the first one I might even let the personality slide. Age never concerned me unless she isnt legal. All else is fair game.a forty year old woman will teach you young boys what you don’t know!hey multi =)when your grandma dies, i hope the first thing you think of is me and SanCom, and how i completely ruined the memories you have of your grandma forever =)P.S. everytime you try and downvote this comment, your grandma feels a sharp pain in her spleen =)P.S. you missed a few articles where loli comments are top rated. when people click those articles, my comments are still the first ones they see =)looks like you better go through all the articles and check again for loli comments. if you don’t, it means you GAVE UP…and i won =)No Brightside, you lost, and a long time ago.  Anyone like you with 30 multis needs professional help.  Get it before it is too late.(usernames)
-unique identifie(s)(brightside)(1)
Brightsideawefawef (4)
-awefghjk
-awefzxcv
-awefgyuk
-awefq23r(lalachan)(2)
bawefawef
lalasatalin01 (momochan)(9)
momovelia
awefoij
aweflala
awefmomo
awefnana
awefloli
awefimoutomikan
awefguil
awef1234awef(Loli)(1)
anorgasmicloli(Lolibutt)(1)
lolibutt01(dub)(1)
supersweet(panstu)(1)
pantsupower(astavelia)(2)
cawefzxcv
cawefqwer(velia)(3)
bawefqwer
bawef0987
cawef1234(momovelia)(2)
bawef1234
bawefzxcv(akaruichan)(1)
akaruichan…LOLYou’re so obsessed with me, and I have so much power over your life, I think I’m gonna call you my slave from now on XDHere’s a tip for my new slave: If you use a script, it only takes a few minutes to create 20+ accounts, since this site’s captcha sucks. In the time it took me to type this, I made 20 more just to test you. I order you to go find them, my slave. NOW 🙂Unlike you, who wasted hours creating them all by hand. How sorry I feel for you…So nope. I still won. 🙂-grandmaisdead AKA sweetnsourPS now that i know you weren’t using scripts like me, i have this piece of advice for you: Anyone who is as mentally disturbed as you as to create 30+ accounts BY HAND just get my attention seriously needs psychiatric help. I suggest you get it before it’s too late.DAMN!!! talking about older women.. Hats off. Physically, mentally, sexually mature.. Triple shot. Who wouldn’t want that? 😉The longer you stave it off, the harder it hits.I swore I’d never go over 18, but I’ would totally HIT THAT.!hell yes, i”m with you! at least women from east asia know to value what they once had when they were girls before they turned into adults.bah, i ggive up. so many loli comments that are top rated. i think i’m just gonna go lolic after all.anon (08:27 10/11/2011), why do yuou spam the same comment so many time and use multies to try to upvote them?LOL, you’re telling me that granny fetish anon is so bittt-err that he’s still refreshing this every day?man, that just cracks me up…anon 18:28, why do you get so mad that you ran out of accounts?mad that you wanted to downrate anon 8:27 but could only get to Good (+0.5)?Calm Down 🙂anon 18:28, why are you so mad that you ran out of accounts? Just calm down. Now.there’s no doubt Asians age more gracefully than most any other group of people on the planetShe is amazingly hot but now I’m worried what if you fall in a love with a female TWICE your age and end up committed before the bombshell hits and she tells you that she’s going to be ancient way sooner than you.I’m calling total BULLSHIT. There’s no way she is 43. I first thought 24 at MOST. She looks like the lets go kareoke I’m a highschool senior type.This reminds me of Tsunade from Naruto.Them nippons and their nippon techsJUNANASAI DESU!JUNANASAI DESU!No real miracles at work here. Some people simply know how to look after themselves better and really do get hotter with age.you no want your old hags? It’s kay I’ll take them all :3I haven’t seen a japanese woman I wasn’t attracted to.She obviously sacrifices babies and drinks unicorn bloodSeriously though middle aged women are the best women. Fuck the hatersIt’s not a miracle. Some women are just like that. My lady is 54, with long auburn hair and a willowy figure. When she walks into a room, guys half her age turn and stare.Now, we need a similar article on men.Skincare doesn’t only mean make-up, idiots…It also includes using anti-aging cremes, face massaging devices and so on…Using make-up fucks up the quality of your skin really badly, so older women and younger ones in their twenties spend a lot of time taking care of their skin to maintain a healthy quality…THAT’s skincare…I never knew I had a granny fetish.WHAT FUCKING SORCERY IS THISSo someone finally made that loli-forever medicine?“39” is YUKI from Judy & Mary. As in, the OP to Rurouni Kenshin…MILF!51, no fucking way!My fiancee is Japanese, I’m 35 and she’s 37. Some women definitely start to run down at this age….not mine; she’s fairly cute, not a killer beauty or anything, but she’s got the face and body of a 25 year old. It all comes down to exercise, avoiding too much sun, eating right, and lots of sex…. good for the skin 😉People still believe 40 means elder?
Really, get out of that mentality. Someone in their 40s is still a young adult.lol apparently people don’t know a compliment.The comment is right, someone in their 40s should not be considered “old” or elder. Just because a person hits 40s it doesn’t mean their body and appearance instantly turn the same age. There isn’t anything fascinating about it.This is mainly an issue in Japan.  Most people in the West don’t have these hangups.Yeah some of these people sound like they were born in the wrong century.  I know better than to think only super young women/girls are attractive.I think only super attractive super young women/girls are attractive. But if they happen to stay super attractive such as the ones above despite really not being all that old, then hell, I’ll still think of them as attractive. Not like my 2 cents count towards anything though.MILFs galore 😀 Experienced women…heh heh   The virgin hunter otakus are crying right now..Meh, lots over overgeneralizing going on here.  Grass is always greener, etc.  I’m an asian guy, but I would love to have a white girlfriend… hit me up ladies, I still <3 youif this was my friend mum i may wan her be my girlfriend if she a singlei have no idea why japan thinks all women stop looking good when they hit 30.Lol and only use makeup to look to a girl of 18-19, LEARN THAT PHOTOSHOPED IDOLS and his tards nyahahahahaha.Just wait until she takes a bath and all that make-up falls down.  XDWOw, are you 40? no, it is not posible
wpI love the milf…It feels like 2ch has never seen or heard the concept of a milf before looking at reactions.and now imagine that we could transfer our minds into an android like body. 300yr old could be looking like 18yr. The age of the mind and the expirience as a result of that would get a much higher importance.
It’s like the immortality of elves in a way.Are you high?if my mum is this pretty i don’t know if i can take it or not LOL!!!!You all still don’t get it.  Make them 9-12 and then their fuckable and attractive.  Sure, makeup surgery, good health/diet can fake the real truth but why accept or promote fakes?  I want the real deal, just like I don’t buy knockoff or fake merchandise… A just barely pubescent/budding white girl.Would you have a choice when you’re 40? YOu’d need lots of money for tahtNaw, I had a lot of fun with a few girls last night. Does the thought of that make you so mad that you want to tear your eyes out, “Riiku”? :3bah, after trying to fool myself that japanese otaku and idol culture could be considered a normal hobby, and doesn’t promote and attract pedophiles and otherwise darkside of net of child porn… after seeing comments like this voted to the top, time and time again, I’ll have to concede that opinion. You guys win.Tissue?  Silent majority has spoken.Why not just call them milfs?These days it’s like you don’t look old until you get really old. Met a guy at a bar a few months ago. His wife told me he was 40 but he looked about 15 years younger. Isn’t that something? Older people are looking young and younger people (13-16) are looking way older than they should. It’s confusing!Well theyre asians you cant even tell 12 and 20 y.o. apart :Olol, you’re telling me that granny fetish anon is so bittterr that he’s still refreshing this every day?man, that just cracks me up…Older women also don’t say No, they treat every time like it might be their last, because one day it will be.That’s Poplar-chan in her 40’s right there.Asian Youth!fuck everything, id tap it.some of these women look better than most younger women…main reason being most younger people are fucking lazy.Anon here’s a lazy bitch. Though this does inspire me to take better care of my skin.Wait what the fuck am I talking about I’m not going to do anything.asians dont look old till they are like 60She looks a bit like Tamao Satoh.Older women have their charm.It’s the confidence, the grace, the wisdom, the fact that they don’t need you to hand over your cash, and the fact that they are damn good in bed.  I don’t mind if things aren’t as tight as they were when she was eighteen.  It’s a fact of life and I’ll forget all about it when we’re fucking.The best one is the girl under age 39… HOLY SHIT she looks like 15 years old such a cutie.1) face lift or other type of plastic surgery
2) MAKE UP does miracle… turn that old guy into girl
3) photoshopI’d hit it. I have no delusions that only the young are attractive.Her face may look young and attractive, but the lower part i’m not quite sure.The face ages long before the body.You can hide (a fair bit of) facial age with makeup…I’d hit it as well.With a nighstickI don’t think I want to look that young when I’m in my 40s… I just hope I age gracefully.You say that now but I think once you look like that age 44 woman you’ll take it back 😉You don’t understand what it’s like to be an attractive girl and get hit on all the time.  And the lines men use get worse and worse.  It’s probably the same for hot men but I haven’t seen it.I disagree on the women not making the move.  Not silly pick up lines but they will do whatever it take to be around you.  The shyer ones will probably do something simple like tell people close to you. Normal one just stay and small chat you, and try to get touchy feely.  The most bold one I ran too was at a friend house party, I went to sleep on side room and never talked to this girl the whole time, I thought she was out of my league to be honest.  Then she enter the room I’m sleeping in and after 20 minute small chatting i invite her into bed and bang bang occured.It’s not the same for hot men. women still wont make the move,but they will think your stupid lines are funny.I hope I can look this good when I’m 40! I wonder if the whole “good aging Asian genes” applies to half Asian as well… Apparently I look like I’m 16/17 (I’m in my 20s) so maybe I have a chance…It’s probably photoshop all the way…
but until somebody else prove it… moar pleaseDO WANTI can’t believe what I’m seeing, I knew Hyde was 42 and looked young but I didnt think there were women that could do this too. Then again I have family members including myself that are older than they look.Hyde was kind of a special case though.  When he was 25 he looked 12.  He’s pretty much just catching up.20 year old daughter with a 43 year old mom who looks like her older sister…wow.  Some Japanese do age rather well.  Aya Sugimoto is still hot.  Some seiyuu also surprise me. (Kikuko Inuoe.)These women have flattering photos and definitely had their faces tucked.  Wether you are Asian or Caucasian, everyones jowls sag.  They look good.  But I’m sure their husbands are paying for all the cosmetics and face work.  Poor men.I’d pay for my wife to look fuckable.I’d pay for wife.LOL why’d this get downvote its funnythis woman is more than 50http://www.gstriatum.com/info/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=454:galeria-de-maribel-guardia&catid=49:galerias&Itemid=55I wonder if 2d can portrait women on the 40s as themSo Sanae, Akiko and Haruka do exist! Rejoice!No Ishino Yoko? Disappointed…That’s not rare… Everybody thought that my mom is the older sister of my bro, when they were walking together, when bro was 17 (mom was 46) she’s 56 now, but looks still 40…they were still looking like lolis around 20 – 25 years ago I bet.It’s just me or she looked like Aya Hirano ???This is SC, are we supposed to believe thats really a girl?America has cougars, and Japan has foxes.*takes of sunglasses* Mother of God.See if she looks like she’s 18 when you wake up next to her in the morning before she fixes her face and hair. Like waking up next to a bar hog you thought was beautiful when you picked her up 3am when you were shitfaced.Aaaahhhhhhhhhhh!!!!5 hours a day on skin care? Is that really worth it?When they discover the pill for immortality I would not want my skin saggy and cratered. I think It is worth it. Most people spend over 5 hours just over eating and watching tv. Think of it as a healthy hobby or a career.
 p.s. it is her job as a model and as a human in general to take care of her skin and body.Funny you picked up on that, but missed the part where she is a career model.What a wonderful comparison with the “50 year old otaku” article!  Compliments to you, Sankaku-kun, on placing those two blog posts on adjacent days.  it is a great compare/contrast of reality.So all you otaku, hikikomori, and NEET:  Do you want to be yesterday’s loser, or the husband of today’s winner?  Our Japanese beauties are not looking for perfection, they are just looking for someone confident and someone who can support a family.  And with enough confidence and money like I have, you can also get lovely housemaid and office staff, pretty at all ages too.Like you ever cared about how we live our lives alone or with someone else you blind, selfish, cold hearted old man.Oh great Ishihara-sama, please make this unworthy barbarian foreigner your underling and apprentice! I’ll even join the LDP if I ever gain citizenship!I wouldn’t do that if I were you. Ishihara is insane and crazy who only cares about staying in office and passing out useless and stupid bans.and making you slave for the rest of your life.And poking penises through paper doors.Vampires I tell you… just like Tom Cruise.Where are the Belmonts when you need them?!Drillhair!OMG, women over 20 can be sexy?!  What a foreign concept!Jackasses…Women over 20 are so ugly you might as well be gay bro.There are several women over twenty that I’d fuck senseless.  Hell there are several women over thirty that I’d fuck senseless.If you think women over 20 are ugly YOU are definitely gay.Here come the butthurt girls downvoting because guys would rather fuck older women than their fugly asses.MILF detectedseems like denpa seishun all over again….No kidding!  She looks great in her worst picture.My 40 Year-Old Aunt Can’t Be This CuteI bet her husband has two little bite marks hidden under his collar.  I also bet he is fine with that arrangement too 🙂Why do people these days love so much middle-aged women?!!What makes you think that? really im curiousStupid question.  A hot woman is simply a hot woman.Combine that with the fact that older women are more grounded, generally have their lives built up so they won’t be relying on your paycheck, they know what they want, and are generally good in bed.Also, an air of innocence and femininity isn’t the sole possession of younger women.A woman with experience.. well… she knows what she is doing and what she gets into with men. I’ve always said that at my current age 35 is tops, but in 5 years 40 will do just fine also.We can go back to little girls anytime, if you prefer.wow she aged WELL48, 51 impresiveI’d still hit it.Hot damn! That first lady can visit me any day of the week. Fo’ real!“If you guys spent the time you spend on 2ch on skincare instead, you’d all be hot guys. Give up 2ch now”i never knew such geniuses existedthen give up Sankaku tooMost viewer of san com is very very casual, beside a handful of people.I don’t find it strange that such people exist. You know some of the seemingly best skin-renewal accelerators are actually invented by the Japanese way before Japan opened its doors to foreigners and these products are still used by many Japanese even today. It’s just that now other Asians also use them when they can get their hands on them as they’ve been tested to work on Asian skin other than just Japanese ones.Can you recommend a popular japanese brand of this skin accelerator?I don’t want to advertise for any brand, but you can try to find something like “Miracle Water” or something like that.Just look for “BB Cream”.thanks, but as a white guy should i be using a skin whitener cream. albino with baby bottom skin here i come fk yeah!Everyone already knows western girls are only good when their very young… say 16 yo at tops when their facial feature still seem delicate they just look beautiful.  But they do not age well at all.  Thats why you marry an asian girl for the long run.There is this Asian girl that I work with and people thought she was in her late 30’s early 40’s and she is in her early 20’s.I am white, 23 and the younget I been mistaken for is 12 wearing nothing to make me look young, just a work uniform.  I am different though than most americans, I don’t tan, I don’t smoke and drink which all ages skin.Also skincare and makeup does wonders!You wear make up as a guy? thats cheating 😐
and doesn’t make up ruin the skin.. after my gf take off their make up their skin doesn’t look so hot.@Anon,5:04.  I am a girl,lolMakeup doesn’t ruin the skin.  It’s when people don’t take care of their skin and try to cover it up with makeup instead of addressing the problem that’s the issue.It really has nothing to do with the race but skincare. Most asians who live in western countries since generations age the same way as them. The difference is that asia got better beauty products since they have higher standards for beauty since ages, that’s all.That’s true too.. because westerner are backwards and go for skin DARKENING, TANNING, and making their skin ORANGE color.  Basically destroy their skin.Genes might also have something to do with it; my mom’s 4th generation Asian American, and she’s 55. We were at a restaurant that cards anyone that looks 40 or under, and she just looked at the waiter and said, “I’m old enough to be your mother.”So I think you have to have some kind of mix of skincare and genes to still look young when your older, because she said she used to tan like crazy when she was in high school/college and of course you everyone says that if you tan when you’re young you look like crap when you’re older.Heavy make up, the photo is tweaked, its blurry low quality and bright lighting to hide skin blemishes (major thing that stands out from aging), angle of photos. But otherwise pluses for good fashion sense, not being a fat piece of lard like many westerner even in their early twenties… etc.you wanker fuckOh and asian genetics.. westerners get giant jew noses and other sharp prominent facial features that really show off age.Clannad: Furukawa SanaeMinus the fact that that 95% of them are wearing pounds of makeup, are shot like they where doing photoshoots with lots of airbrushing, and most are wearing so many clothes you have no idea what’s going on besides that they’re skinny..i bet that if some of them would take their clothes off, you would find their flap wings under their arms!Well my japanese teacher is 60 years old and she’s kinda hot… When she told me her age I was like “OMG O_O”,’cause you could swear that she is way younger.Japanese have generally a perfect nutrition, wonderful hair, beautiful voice, very nice skin and seems way younger.Depends on where the person did growup, somebody asian used to western food and beauty products ages the same way as everbody else in the country.One of my Japanese friends is in her late 40ies too, has 3 grown-up kids but she doesn’t look anything like her age except a few small wrinkles in the corners of her eyes.
Everything is still firm, you won’t have that in the west normally.Real life Meme from Denpa Onna.MILFy MILFs…Wonder if her daughter likes wrapping herself in a futon…Just what I thought 🙂now all we need is to wrap her daughter and throw her into the riverthen we’ll have a nice storyPerhaps its just my “ane-san” or cougar fetish acting up where they’re in control or a dominatrix, but beautiful older women have that, how do I say, charisma or aura which I’ve come to love. Confidence, maturity, attitude and not to mention very hot just stirs my inner animal and I believe is what all women should have (at least from my M point of view). Best post on SanCom for me.Younger women are easy on the eyes but I’ll take an older woman any day.  They know what they want, they are past the games, and they have a feminine grace that I can’t resist.I was beginning to think it was some freak of nature I had met back when I was in school. There was one girl in our school that by time she was 17, her mother could easily play her twin and no one would know. I’m not talking striking similarity like you’d expect from mother-daughter, more like identical twins. Sadly when I tried to get to know the daughter better I learned why she had virtually no friends, downright disgusting personality, which is saying a lot considering that period of my schooling was in a school full of spoiled snobs.hey multi =)when your grandma dies, i hope the first thing you think of is me and SanCom, and how i completely ruined the memories you have of your grandma forever =)cougar magnet… theres hope yetwow pura bellezas D: T_T pero lo malo no se mucho el ingles _-_
PD: Saludos!!! desde Perú – TacnaQuite a few of the women in their 40’s and 50’s are stunning here.  I work with a soapland and here is one of the girls, age 47.
http://www.flickr.com/photos/pozland/6288340604/in/photostream/That’s why eastern asian women are superior than white women. White women deteriorate at light speed after primary school.so, are you guys still gonna insist 2D is still better than such natural gift like this?oh well, as long as there are artist who can draw and entertain you there’s just no way you guys are gonna quit anyways.Asians tend to look young even at age 40s-50s. Just wait when we hit 70, then BAM age starts to catch up and hit you like a truck.dude, anyone who hits at 70 is obviously, a given sign of fukcing age. Get some obviousness in you alright~well , as some like to say: the true beauty of women is revealed past 30 ..
But it’s a rare sight to see one fitting of that saying , especially when they are 40+ …Even if it isn’t photoshop Im sure we’ve seen the miricles of makeup on this site, somehow makeup can make squinty eyes real bigMy waifu is forever beautiful!!And imaginaryWhere is your goddess now ?!She bathe in virgin blood to maintain her youth. so does the legend saysand then you see them without makeup2 some of them I wouldnt mind but wat would be better is a mother/daughter combo >=DOyako Donburi <340’s is nothing for east Asians, it’s when they hit 50’s, you’ll see.The 51 years old is Manami Komori, Guilty Gear XX’s Jam Kuradoberi.DAMN, she’s still hot.WHAT THE HELL 51? *mind blown* It looks shopped but still…let me marry old hagI just want to go on record and thank 2ch, even if its just this once for a long while, for showing what is as close to their version of ‘class’ toward mature, beautiful women as can be expected.At least for a moment I get to feel like there’s a light in their futures for being able to recognize this beauty, even in some form, regardless of the ‘hag’ jokes.  And even if this woman is going about it the hard way with 5 hours a day on beautification.I just wish this came out before they made their designs for Atelier Meruru -_-  I would have relished seeing Rorona as a gorgeous, mature, beautiful woman.  Even if she still tripped over her own feet, she still was the same whimsical girl we basically ‘grew up’ with over the franchise.  Now I fear it’ll be like they’re erasing all she is for aesthetic purposes even though nobody but the designers seem to want it this way…Why do people keep thinking that 2ch is some singular entity?“Birds of a feather. flock together.”All of 2chan is [are] the same kind of people, thus they’re like a hive mind.“They are legion: for they are many”5hrs on skincare, 5mins on the bed. And the rest of the day buying cosmetic things….My mother is younger than me in face and body comparison. She’s like 20, even though she’s already 47.Yeah, I know dat feel. This article has only reminded me of my own mother.You guys have no idea how awkward it is to be seen with a mother who gets carded for alcohol at the age of 48…That’s kinda sad… for you.Here’s your new stepfather. Always willing to make you a new stepbrother or stepsister.That’s one hot mom.I guess the years of bukkake treatment really paid off.Semen it’s good for the skin.Only a few more years and you can nakadashi with impunity.Stacy’s Mom???http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-pt8j69ZNXwQ/Tl1eaDPnoOI/AAAAAAAABdk/0miFTilq69w/s1600/Cougar+Milf+Mom+etc.jpgMILF MILF MILF MILFI can tell ya that at least one of them ain’t married, and don’t have any children.MILF isn’t a correct term. Cougars maybe.Exactly what I was saying as I was going down the list of pictures.4.jpg; Yuriko Ishida. Loved her since the Overtime drama.Jukujos. I’m lovin’ them.Doesn’t matter, they’ll all just lay there during sex and let the guy do whatever so they can continue to mooch off the male.Then they’ll all fake their orgasm, as according to that poll.Jap men and women are doing it wrong.Sex in japan is a lot different than sex elsewhere. In japan, outside of porno, sex has “roles”. One person is dominant and one is submissive. The woman is typically submissive. It’s not true in every case, but in many. All the girls I know who have gone to japan say this, and say the japanese men were unable to relax and let go how americans do during sex. It’s possible that they are “doing it wrong” but one must remember their culture is very different from ours. They are essentially a culture obsessed with perfection, saving face, and thus… repression.She’s a vampire!Whoa, 51!?hmm…I’ll take them…all of them…except the ugly on at the end…i’ll second that 🙂I said I wouldn’t ever go over 18, but I would definitely TAP THAT!yep, couldn’t agree more! at least women in east asia appreciate the youth that they had when they were a girl.There are a couple REALLY popular male singers in Japan who have admitted they like older women, and it caused a shitstorm for all the girls who thought that being young and kawaii was all they needed to get a man.  The jealous girls tried to discredit older women (much the same way the downvoters are in this article) but the guys stood by their comments.  The catty girls were so pissed off.  After all these are guys who could get any girl to ride their dick just by glancing at them.Japan needs to stop being so close-minded.  Hot is hot.This is why I like mature women….BUENOAWOO…GA!this sir, is the true meaning of MILFI could slay an army of cougars in japanI bet when they were 20, all the women around them were making fun of them for looking too young. Now look who’s laughing.Damn, these are what I call OILF.I swore I’d never go over 18, but I’ would totally HIT THAT!!hell yes, im with you! at least women from east asia know to value what they once had when they were girls before they turned into adults.bah, i give up. so many loli comments that are top rated. i think i’m just gonna go lolic after all.I swore Id never go over 18, but I’ would totally HIT THAT!!bahh, i give up. so many loli comments that are top rated. i think i’m just gonna go loli after all.hell yes! im with you. at least women from east asia know to value what they once had when they were girls before they turned into adults.…tons of make-up and photoshop, you mean?I swore Id never go over 18, but I’ would totally HIT THAT!bah, i give up. so many lolicon comments that are top rated. i think i’m just gonna go lolicon after all.hell yes, im with you. at least women from east asia know to value what they once had when they were girls before they turned into adults.Hey fucktard.  Doing 20 copypasta of the same two posts is geting old.  Besides, admin can do an IP ban, and they can use your “pantsu” account to confirm it.  Go away now and play with yourself some place else.9:20
I was just about to say… if you think a Ip ban does anything you must be new to the internet.  Btw im not the guy you’re mad at just pointing out the obvious.btw, good luck with an ip ban when i can use tor. you’re probably one of those little girls who think the internet is so simple. so, so sad.oh u mad. that’s pretty sad.bah, i give up. so many loli comments that are top rated. i think i’m just gonna go loli after all.Just make sure not to confuse loli which is 2d… with CP which is 3d… the second just recently got a  guy a life time jail sentence in Florida with no prior criminal record.hope i didn’t make you too mad with that comment, btw. you’ll learn more about how the internet works one day.don’t worry kid, i don’t get the two confused. for loli, i go to sankaku complex or 2chan. for cp, i go to hidden wiki with tor.I’m not mad.. i’m just telling him because it is serious stuff he can mess with.  And i know what is tor and hidden wiki… but I don’t trust using anonymity service which is created by the US military.  On top of that tor has already been compromised by both french and danish researcher so If its your only form of anonymity I would be weary.I swore I’d never go over 18, but I would definitely HIT THAT!!!!!hell yes, i’m with you!!!! at least women from east asia understand the value of the youth they once had when they were teenage girls (unlike blacks, etc.)I swore I’d never go over 18, but I would definitely HIT THAT!!!!hell yes, i’m with you!!! at least women from east asia understand the value of the youth they once had when they were teenage girls (unlike blacks, etc.)I swore I’d never go over 18, but I would definitely HIT THAT!!!hell yes, i’m with you!! at least women from east asia understand the value of the youth they once had when they were teenage girls (unlike blacks, etc.)I swore I’d never go over 18, but I would definitely HIT THAT!!hell yes, i’m with you! at least women from east asia understand the value of the youth they once had when they were teenage girls (unlike blacks, etc.)I said that I wouldn’t ever go over 18, but I would definitely HIT THAT.yep! couldn’t agree more. at least women in east asia appreciate the youth that they had when they were a girl.>Anime, Manga and Games observed form JapanHow is this related to anime, manga or games???????>Anime, Manga and Games observed form JapanHow is this related to anime, manga or games???I said that I wouldnt ever go over 18, but I would totally HIT THAT.yep, couldn’t agree more. at least women in east asia appreciate the youth that they had when they were a girl.I said that I wouldn’t ever go over 18, but I would totally HIT THAT.couldn’t agree more. at least women in east asia appreciate the youth that they had when they were a girl.I said I’d never go over 18, but I’d totally TAP THAT.totally agree with you. at least women in east asia appreciate the youth that they had when they were a girl.I said that I would never go over 18, but I would totally TAP THAT.completely with you. at least women in east asia appreciate the youth that they had when they were a girl.I said to myself that I would never go over 18, but I would TOTALLY HIT THAT.i couldn’t agree more. at least women in east asia appreciate the youth that they had when they were a girl.You’d never? You’d have to fuck sluts all your life you knowI hope I didn’t make you cry or anything, “Riiku” XDNo hard feelings. I just think you’re a loser who just got caught red-handed, that’s all.…LOLSo you’re the kid who created multiple accounts just for me? XD I feel so sorry for you man… :3I swear that I’d never go over 18, but I’D TOTALLY TAP THAT.My country, Costa Rica, is also famous for its very well-preserved ladies over 40. Just search for Maribel Guardia and get an idea.ähm… she looks old and full of plastic surgery, sry manI didn’t want to say anything to not be mean but I have to agree with this.After digging her name in google picture for a few minute I have to agree with the plastic surgery.1)First look at her in this picture early on:
http://www.mallorcaeiendom.com/mallorcaeiendom/Images/pictures/Maribel1.jpgShe looks great2)And now?
http://i2.esmas.com/2009/12/10/89592/maribel-300×350.jpgPlastic surgery gone overboard and now looks like micheal jackson… with giant fake boobs.Don’t get me wrong.  If I was that old, I don’t find anything wrong with plastic surgery, if it helps you to find confidence and you can afford it go for it.  But not if you look worse then before you got it.I agree with you.
And she is smart too.just a while ago I posted about her, but the post was deleted I suppose.Who is Maribel Guardia? check these pics : http://www.google.com.mx/webhp?sourceid=chrome-instant&ie=UTF-8&ion=1&nord=1#hl=es&sugexp=kjrmc&cp=12&gs_id=4&xhr=t&q=maribel+guardia&pf=p&sclient=psy-ab&nord=1&site=webhp&source=hp&pbx=1&oq=maribel+guar&aq=0&aqi=g4&aql=f&gs_sm=&gs_upl=&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.,cf.osb&fp=eb9e96c6521bb9c8&biw=1270&bih=666&ion=1The Japanese have conditioned themselves to believe that older women aren’t attractive, but that’s complete bullshit.  Women across the board can be attractive if they take care of themselves.  If you are attractive at eighteen, you can easily be attractive as an older woman.Attractive women who don’t age attractively were just lazy bitches.And here lies the main problem.Most women think that after they get married they can just let themselves go.  With just some simple maintenance and not being lazy, they can easily look hot at any age.Congrats Anon, thought of it yourself?I think women are more conscious of that fact than you are, actually.21:08 are you Japanese? Because you sound like you get all your information from bad Japanese television.  Japanese people believe any retarded stereotype they hear.Not all areas in the west have large percentages of fat people.  California is nothing like Louisiana for example.  Meals easily topping 2k is NOT normal (overweight people are that way due to too much snacking, not large meals).  And most housewives are lazy.  Especially those gold digging bitches in Japan.^ alot of that I would argue is not the fault of those “lazy housewive” but westerner in general.  Westerner simlpy EAT ALOT, not saying on purpose but their portion for meals is huge and can easily top 1k-2k calories per meal.  Add that to aging and slower metabolism and you get fat people… male or female don’t single out one.
I think more westerner are starting to wake up and excercise and watch their intake in modesty I believe though.Tell that to all those fat lazy wives who let their looks go.that is bullshit.! some people have good genetics that let them age naturally beautiful, some do not, and not matter how hard you look after yourself it aint gonna make any difference, unless you turn to surgery of course.Yep. In this case this lady has a very nice shaped face. Those not lucky enough to be born with that will never get it.And wow, she’s really pretty. Though I can fairly well see she has a fair amount of makeup on… when all you see is powder it’s easier to look young. But that’s besides the point that she looks gorgeous!@9:44
“no excuse for NOT being an attractive older woman” Fixed.  *Brofist*8:40 is the butthurt girl trying to defend herself.We’re talking about attractive women, stupid bimbo.  Not ugly ones what no man would look at at any age.  So you bringing up women who were born unattractive is completely irrelevant.What we’re saying is, if you’re an attractive young woman there is no excuse for being an attractive older woman.  NONE.5:37 is one of those lazy bitches you were talking about.  She wants to sit on her ass instead of taking care of herself.  Point proven.“not matter how hard you look after yourself it aint gonna make any difference”*Facepalm*It’s not bullshit, it’s science.  Sun damage causes the majority of aging.  The food you eat affects how your skin looks.I’m willing to bet you’re some insecure girl who can’t handle that men like women who don’t look like you.  Look at he logic instead of getting overemotional about it.Im sorry but she’s right imo. There are cases where taking good care of yourself through a healthy life style won’t make you that much more attractive than your gene combination you got. Case in point. The woman in the last picture. She could and did her hair and makeup and she isn’t overweight, but unfortunatly for her and many (woman and men) she was born with an un-atractive face. No ammount of physical exercise or healthy life style, makeup of skin creams can change that, its in her facial bone structure, and deeper, the cause is the genetic combination she was born with. You people who downvoted that anonymous comment just show ignorance through arrogance. You remind me of some other case where an american though that by living a healthy life style it wouldn’t need a universal healthcare payer system, it would be immune to cancer, tumor, aids, genetic disorders, etc.That bitch girl came back and downvoted the original post from being on top and upvoted all her shitty comments.  Get over it whore, men don’t like you.“She could and did her hair and makeup and she isn’t overweight, but unfortunatly for her and many (woman and men) she was born with an un-atractive face.”Then we wouldn’t be looking at her in the first place dumbshit.Oh and upvoting your comments after everyone already downvoted you to drivel isn’t going to make people think you’re not full of shit.“I’m willing to bet you’re some insecure girl who can’t handle that men like women who don’t look like you.” Insecure, catty girls ALWAYS come into articles like this and downvote our comments.  Another example of them trying to tell men what we should be attracted to.Lazy gold-digging bitches are downvoting this.So men over 30 become wizards and women who become 40 are sorceresses! Or they are witches (although then it sounds so negatively)!?This bitch is a fugly old hag, the very definition of pig ugly 3d. I’d tell her to her face  spit on her.I bet you live a fun and happy life.Closet fag detected.makeup,plastic surgery and light? probs.ive seen nicer looking older women without the caking. 😀“There are miracles!”
Woow.
Wooow.Way to be fucking pathetic, ignorant scrubs.– Boku : …Sore kara Yoroshiku Onegai Shimasu, “Oba-san”
– Oba/Ojo-san : O-B-A-S-A-N ?
– Boku : Gomenasai, Gomenasai, “Ojo-san”
– Oba/Ojo-san : Ii desu yo. “Onee-san” wa kamaimasen.Translate:
– Me : …and please take care of me from now on. Aunti/old hag.
– A certain Mrs/Ms *smile in dark aura* : A-U-N-T-I ?
– Me : I’m sorry, I’m sorry, Miss.
– A certain Mrs/Ms *smile* : That’s all right. “big sis” is fine too.(sourse: From a certain anime that I forgot name )hoshizora e kakaru hashi, episode 1I swore Id never go over 18, but I’ would totally HIT THAT!!!!!!!!!hell yes, im with you. at least women from east asia know to value what they once had when they were girls before they turned into adults….bah, i give up. so many lolicon comments that are top rated. i think i’m just gonna go lolicon after all…..I swore I’d never go over 18, but I’ would totally HIT THAT!hell yes, i’m with you. at least women from east asia know to value what they once had when they were girls before they turned into adults.yep! couldn’t agree more. at least women in east asia appreciate the youth that they had when they were a girl.>Anime, Manga and Games observed form JapanHow is this related to anime, manga or games???????????>Anime, Manga and Games observed form JapanHow is this related to anime, manga or games??????????>Anime, Manga and Games observed form JapanHow is this related to anime, manga or games?????????>Anime, Manga and Games observed form JapanHow is this related to anime, manga or games????????>Anime, Manga and Games observed form JapanHow is this related to anime, manga or games??????>Anime, Manga and Games observed form JapanHow is this related to anime, manga or games??I said that I’d never go over 18, but I would totally TAP THAT.i’m totally with you. at least women in east asia appreciate the youth that they had when they were a girl.If they look like they’re 18 when they’re 40, imagine what they looked like when they were 18!This is your reason for all those lolicons right there, with all these sexy 12-year-old-looking 18-year-olds!Legal loli? 😀Excuse me?!It’s LEGALOLI tyvm!!Yes, with sexual experience and no reason for you to hold back.you just called 12-year-olds sexy? lmaoNo, I called sexy 12-year-olds sexy, biiiig difference.40-18=22, so at 18 they’d look -4… that can’t be good.Well, we’ve never seen a person of age -4, maybe they do look like lolis. Maybe every single negative year corresponds to 3 positive years of growth, or in this case non-growth.The important question it, do they still need to be over 18 to be legal or is it just under -6, cause if it’s the former then they’d never be legal and would die out, which is probably why we’ve never seen any of those nega-people around…Sperm Cells.>Anime, Manga and Games observed form JapanHow is this related to anime, manga or games?????>Anime, Manga and Games observed form JapanHow is this related to anime, manga or games????>Anime, Manga and Games observed form JapanHow is this related to anime, manga or games?Lot more beautyfull than lolisI told myself I’d never go over 18, but I’d TOTALLY HIT THAT.hell yes i’m with youYou know, Artefact, taking into account the articles in…well, since the site’s been up, of disillusioned men searching for virgins but coming up empty-handed, of idols promoting themselves as young and pure but turn out to succumb to the desires of the flesh, and then give us this article about the loveliness of older women, it’s almost like you’re trying to send a message here…I think you are reading too deep into it and he’s just translating whatever 2ch thread he finds semi interesting.Freaking sankaku stop posting Ugly 3D stuffHeh, at times like this I’m really glad I’m a guy.
Don’t have to deal with all that skin care/ staying out of sun/ make up and other tedious crap because i’d be judged so heavily on how I look if i were a girl.I swore I’d never go over 18, but I’D TOTALLY TAP THAT.I dont believe my eyes….I swore the same thing until I found my wife — a 30-year-old Asian girl who frequently gets asked if she’s 16…  🙂“… asked if she’s 16” — by police officers, perchance?Wonder what happen to the 28 year old cute Chinese Mangaka? If she still looks like a schoolgirl or been run down by a Craze Chinese driver,–Dead?Ex-Playboy Playmate: Just let me ask you one question, Sergeant.Dan Ackroyd: Go right ahead.Ex-Playboy Playmate: Do these look like the breasts of a 40-year-old woman?Dan Ackroyd: No, ma’am.  They do not.  They look superb.hey guys! Wanna bet on Leah Dizon looks when shes 40?? 😀In Japan you won’t age when you age… ><lol occupational hazard of being Asian, when we’re young we look really young, when we start getting really old (like 80’s) we look FREAKING old lol.being asian is a job now?Living is a jobid rape her =/Japanese women are freaks of nature…..All the ones I know are just like this lady…20-30: they look like jail bait all right and Im not kidding ( I nearly went to prison when going out with one because she looked ‘too young’ to the officer…)30-40: they are still JB…40-50: they are finally in their 20’s…50-60: if they keep preening themselves, barelly look like 30…60+ if they still taking care, they’re stuck in their 30s, if not, they look like their age…thats bullshit, asian ladies tend to age really poorlyAny woman will age poorly if they dont take care of themselves. What I said is a FACT. ALL THE ASIAN WOMEN I KNOW ARE LIKE THAT. HECK, MY 70+ YEAR OLD JAPANESE TEACHER LOOKS LIKE SHES JUST OUT OF HER 50s….mine too 😀 (also similar age)That’s one good thing Asian women have:  They look very similar over decades.  Especially if they keep healthy.  They tend to only turn … let me be polite … visibly old when they are very old themselves.  And even as old women, from that standpoint, still looking good.Overall, most white women gradually decrease, it’d be a long slope till old age “Prune” stage, sped up quickly by poor living, bad health, meth, etc.  By contrast, many don’t look “super cute” and even look “awkward/ugly” as kids to teen. (‘cept to PedoBear) Hispanics and blacks tend to look really good young then rapidly decline unless health is maintained fanatically. Remember how a few weeks back there was the “Ceo’s Tiger Mistress” who deflected a pie with lightning speed?  She was 40 easily and had two kids, but still very hot.  Perfect choice for a cute companion, the Asian woman is!white girls do meth
you heard it here firstYou’re a complete moron.White women age more rapidly, not because of race, but because they spend too much time in the sun.  Light-skinned races tend to age faster due to the fact that the sun is the highest skin aging factor.  That’s simple, proven science.Japanese girls like to stay out of the sun because they like to keep light complexions, but it also benefits them because they won’t age as fast.Black women and Hispanic women who take care of themselves tend to age VERY SLOWLY.  The media doesn’t give them much credit and likes to show the worst of them, but the reality is, darker skin simply doesn’t age as quickly.Anon 4:44.  You are absolutely correct.  Another reason why darker skin doesn’t age as quickly is because of the increased amount of melanin.  Melanin is what protects a skin from sun damage, and the more melanin is in the skin, the more ultraviolent protection a person has.  Quote: “The media doesn’t give them much credit and likes to show the worst of them, but the reality is, darker skin simply doesn’t age as quickly.”  If you haven’t recognized this, in the U.S. society, the media is VERY racist.  Dark skinned people are considered to be of lower class citizens, and a dark skinnned person has to work twice has hard as a lighter skinned person to be successful.  Just my two cents on this issue (went WAY off subject)..9:55
The office I work has one older white women and the rest older male, except me guy in 20’s.
She is just a secretary but she might as well be the boss, through her judgmental glare cristism under her breath and eye brow raises.. She definitely mold the office into exactly how she wants it to be.. not saying I agree with your conspiracy  but the catty bitch part made me laugh.Fuck the media.  There are some hot black women out there.  Youthful, fit, feminine, cute, and completely fuckable even in the older age brackets.I don’t discriminate.  Hot is hot.  Most men think this way though.  You have to remember that the media is feminized in most countries.  And a ton of women are catty and don’t want to give credit to women who look like them, so you won’t be seeing women of any color but the country’s majority getting a nod.Black women look like ogres. No mulattos and mixed race are not black.bullshit.
black women have gross skin and black bag under their eyes.. .and hispanic girls start getting fat and bags under their eyes even in highschool.
I like how you make up stuff though nice try jack ass.They’re doing it the hard way. Inoue Kikuko is forever 17 just by saying so.РЕДАКЦИЯCopyright © 2014 EnglishRussia The popularblog about 1/6 part-of the land.Welcome andstay comforted.Главная контораCopyright © 2013 English-Russia All the materials on this-site are submitted by the read--ers trough feedback form or-acqulred thru the open sources-like, but not limited to-blogs.2leep.com, flickr.com etcRSS SubscribersTwitter FollowersFacebook LikesВЫХОДИТ ЕЖЕДНЕВНОFriday,  30 March, 2018Categories
    The publication does not exist or is removed
    
    You will be redirected to home after 3 seconds
    Copyright © 2014 English Russia |
		Most of the photo and video materials on this site are submitted by the readers
		or acqulred thru the open sources
		Powered by WordPress
		Official Bitcoin address of ER: 1MfXdS6Pa3hPyFkWApwrofscFqunHzAZtuMost of the photo and video materials on this site are submitted by the readers
		or acqulred thru the open sources
		Powered by WordPress
		Official Bitcoin address of ER: 1MfXdS6Pa3hPyFkWApwrofscFqunHzAZtuor acqulred thru the open sources
		Powered by WordPress
		Official Bitcoin address of ER: 1MfXdS6Pa3hPyFkWApwrofscFqunHzAZtuPowered by WordPress
		Official Bitcoin address of ER: 1MfXdS6Pa3hPyFkWApwrofscFqunHzAZtuOfficial Bitcoin address of ER: 1MfXdS6Pa3hPyFkWApwrofscFqunHzAZtuTo complete the subscription process, please click the link in the email we just sent you.orPlease provide your email address and we will send your password shortly.Please enter your email to complete registrationYour account is not active. We have sent an email to the address you provided with an activation link. Check your inbox, and click on the link to activate your account.The Bored Panda iOS app is live! Fight boredom with iPhones and iPads here.5.9Mviews 1 year ago by​ Rūta Grašytė  Is it possible to look half your age? Most definitely! And Liu Yelin is walking proof.The Chinese mother of one who rarely wears makeup is nearly 50 years old yet looks so young people think her 22-year-old son is her boyfriend. Without a wrinkle in sight and a super-toned body, Liu is constantly stunning people with her looks. “People are often shocked to find out I’m almost 50,” Liu Yelin (49) told Mail Online. “Whenever I went shopping and told people my real age, I often got mobbed by strangers who wanted to find out my secrets.”So, what is that secret of hers? Regular exercise for three decades. “I swim in the lake and do weight training every day,” she said. “My favorite thing is swimming outdoors in winter.” In fact, Liu has swum across the Yangtse River in China and the Han River in South Korea. And last year, she swam from the shores of Penang, Malaysia to the Strait of Malacca – that’s a whopping 7.45 miles in just 4 hours! Pretty impressive, huh? The super-fit mom now has over 75k followers on a Chinese social media site called Weibo and lives by the motto: “If you think you look rough, that’s because you haven’t sweated enough.”More info: Weibo (h/t)                        Like what you're reading? Subscribe to our top stories. Bored Panda works best if you switch to our Android app  Bored Panda works better on our iPhone app! 5.9MviewsSubscribe to our newsletterDownload our iOS appDownload our Android appThis lazy panda forgot to write something about itself.Okay this relationship seems way too awkward for a mother and son to have. Why would you purposefully parade your son around like he's you're boyfriend? Gross.That was my first thought. Yeah, she looks amazing but... Why would pose like that with your son? Ewww.yeah creeeeeepyI think it was for the photos, to show how much it looks like they could be siblings or in a relationship together.Agreed .. Asians are very competitive and childishI work with clients and I have met a few women in their 40s and 50s who dance and doing yoga, they have perfect body too.
a lot of asian women don't wrinkle much in their 50s, but that lady look like a teenager, she probably want a young bf.Maybe he is adopted :DSo Oedipus complex?Pretty sure it's called "posing for photos for magazine"Of course, the magazine was eating it up that she was being a creep. Normal people don't pose like this, magazine or not.I think they are what is called "posing for photos"This comment is hidden. Click here to view.your*Maybe people wouldn't think your son is your boyfriend if you weren't posing with your son like he's your boyfriend? Just a thought.Just overall pretty creepy 😳This comment is hidden. Click here to view.I bet you if she looked her age, nobody would care if she posed like how she's posing. It's the interpreter with the problem.Personal perception is not a problem it's a right .. you sound so childishGreat, but I am pretty sure she had some surgery there...or photoshop....Rhinoplasty, Breast augmentation, Lipo. So obvious. AND if she really does weight training e.v.e.r.y.d.a.y for the last 3 years, then WHY there is not single a muscle definition on any part of her body, even her behind? But good for her - she knows how to look younger at her age of 50! She is the new late 30's!Asians will do or say anything to sell their kindPhotoshop surgery.Yes, here and there and everywhere. Her face still shows some signs of her age. This is not a bad thing. She might be better if she let herself look more mature.The body is actually the easier part because you can keep it quite young with hard work. Having a face like that at that age though takes the work of a skilled surgeon! Especially with her seeming to love the sun so much!Nah she's Asian . Asian people don't age 🙌SURE just like black don't crack
😹You might look up the face exercise regimen developed by Jaclyn Smith, the former Charlie's Angel. She developed the program for women who are unable to have surgery and I've been using those exercises for 15 years. I'm 63 and I look 20 years younger than my cousin who is 9 months older and a souse. No surgery is needed if you understand physiology and have some perseverance.TRUE but her photos are obviously subject to blurred imagingOkay this relationship seems way too awkward for a mother and son to have. Why would you purposefully parade your son around like he's you're boyfriend? Gross.That was my first thought. Yeah, she looks amazing but... Why would pose like that with your son? Ewww.yeah creeeeeepyI think it was for the photos, to show how much it looks like they could be siblings or in a relationship together.Agreed .. Asians are very competitive and childishI work with clients and I have met a few women in their 40s and 50s who dance and doing yoga, they have perfect body too.
a lot of asian women don't wrinkle much in their 50s, but that lady look like a teenager, she probably want a young bf.Maybe he is adopted :DSo Oedipus complex?Pretty sure it's called "posing for photos for magazine"Of course, the magazine was eating it up that she was being a creep. Normal people don't pose like this, magazine or not.I think they are what is called "posing for photos"This comment is hidden. Click here to view.your*Maybe people wouldn't think your son is your boyfriend if you weren't posing with your son like he's your boyfriend? Just a thought.Just overall pretty creepy 😳This comment is hidden. Click here to view.I bet you if she looked her age, nobody would care if she posed like how she's posing. It's the interpreter with the problem.Personal perception is not a problem it's a right .. you sound so childishGreat, but I am pretty sure she had some surgery there...or photoshop....Rhinoplasty, Breast augmentation, Lipo. So obvious. AND if she really does weight training e.v.e.r.y.d.a.y for the last 3 years, then WHY there is not single a muscle definition on any part of her body, even her behind? But good for her - she knows how to look younger at her age of 50! She is the new late 30's!Asians will do or say anything to sell their kindPhotoshop surgery.Yes, here and there and everywhere. Her face still shows some signs of her age. This is not a bad thing. She might be better if she let herself look more mature.The body is actually the easier part because you can keep it quite young with hard work. Having a face like that at that age though takes the work of a skilled surgeon! Especially with her seeming to love the sun so much!Nah she's Asian . Asian people don't age 🙌SURE just like black don't crack
😹You might look up the face exercise regimen developed by Jaclyn Smith, the former Charlie's Angel. She developed the program for women who are unable to have surgery and I've been using those exercises for 15 years. I'm 63 and I look 20 years younger than my cousin who is 9 months older and a souse. No surgery is needed if you understand physiology and have some perseverance.TRUE but her photos are obviously subject to blurred imagingTo complete the subscription process, please click the link in the email we just sent you.Subscribe to our top storiesWe're also on Instagram, tumblr and g+ 10comments 47 points  2comments 46 points  3comments 32 points  2comments 26 points  5comments 35 points  12comments 74 points  46comments 65 points © 2018 Bored PandaOrganizatorzy konkursu piękności znaleźli się w niezręcznym położeniu, gdy okazało się, że jedna z jego finalistek w rzeczywistości nie jest kobietą.22-letni Ilay Dyagilev zmylił jurorów swoją androgeniczną urodą i zaskakującym pomysłem. Chłopak zdecydował się udawać niewiastę, aby udowodnić swoim znajomym, że wśród panujących obecnie kanonów piękna nie ma ani krzty naturalności, a przy zastosowaniu odpowiednich kosmetyków każdy może wyglądać jak „dziewczyna z okładki” - nawet jeśli jest mężczyzną.„Debatowałem z przyjaciółmi o pięknie, a w rezultacie tej rozmowy zadecydowałem o podjęciu wyzwania i zgłoszeniu się do konkursu”, tłumaczy Ilay, „Nie jest trudno zauważyć, ze wiele młodych dziewczyn wygląda dzisiaj identycznie, bo wszystkie korzystają z tego samego makijażu, naśladują ten sam styl. Wydaje im się, że to jedyna droga do tego, żeby być uznaną za piękną. Zupełnie się z tym nie zgadzam”, dodaje żartowniś.Gdy do zdumionego chłopaka dotarło, że jego fikcyjne alter-ego ma realną szansę na zwycięstwo, postanowił ujawnić przed jurorami prawdę. Zanim jednak to nastąpiło, Ilay znalazł się w gronie 16 finalistek walczących o główną nagrodę oraz tytuł „internetowej miss Kazachstanu”.„Dotarłem do finału. Musiałem więc rzucić światło na prawdę o Arinie. Moja inicjatywa wymknęła się spod kontroli, to zaszło już za daleko”, przyznaje Ilay.Organizatorzy konkursu „Virtual Miss Kazakhstan” nie ukrywali szoku, gdy dowiedzieli się, że jedna z ich faworytek jest mężczyzną. „Arinę” zdyskwalifikowano za złamanie regulaminu plebiscytu, a na jej miejsce wskoczyła 18-letnia Aikerim Temirkhanova, ciesząca się wcześniej znacznie mniejszą popularnością niż nieistniejąca dziewczyna.Liczba głosujących: 751Tak - 90%Nie - 10%