Ladies and gentlemen,Bad news for Poland!!! Paul Ryan, Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, intends to suspend the normally applicable procedure and allow the vote not on its own Act H.R.1226, but on the Senate Act S.447! It means, the  House Foreign Affairs Committee will not debate the meaning and ramifications of Act H.R.1226. Instead, the House will proceed with the Senate Bill S.477. The vote may take place next Tuesday (April 24, 2018). The House is likely to proceed under ‘suspension of the rules’, i.e. the debate can be limited to 40 minutes and the congressmen would not be able to propose any amendments to the body of the Act. In order for the bill to be passed, a majority of 2/3 votes will be needed. To become law, the act would have to also be signed by the President of the United States.We would like to ask all of the citizens of the United States to immediately call their representatives in Congress and demand to vote against Act S. 447!You can find your Representative on their official site.Project TeamPlease download, read and communicate to your representative the objections of Polish Americans to Acts S. 447 and H.R. 1226.Please also download and read the document underlining the legal objections to Bills S.447 and H.R.1226 submitted by the Polish-American Constituency.Key arguments:Proceeding “under suspension of the rules” is in case of Act S.447 wrong and unacceptable!
Act S.447 is a complex legislation with broad and far-reaching domestic and international ramifications which involve and encroach into multiple areas: national security, national defense, breach of the existing international treaties, undermining of the geopolitical allies, creation of dangerous precedence, and ultimate corruption of the existing legal system. Postpone scheduled vote! Conduct proper hearings! We continue our action!FollowRzecznik prasowy US Dept. of State zachwala lądowanie w Normandii (06/1944) jako przykład silnych wiezi USA z Niemcami / State Dept Spokesperson Cites D-Day as example of strong relations with Germany https://t.co/WYfjFDevPC

https://t.co/tchvrK6JTQCzaputowicz musi odejść! "W ramach kompetencji szefa Rady Europejskiej trudno zarzucić cokolwiek Tuskowi – stwierdził Jacek Czaputowicz." https://t.co/xDOVLLnEi1Amerykanie natychmiast dostrzegli katastrofalne błędy naszej dyplomacji i widząc, że stali się jedynym i bezalternatywnym sojusznikiem Polski, natychmiast przycisnęli śrubę. Zaczęło się od ustawy o IPN, potem była ustawa 447
https://t.co/bCfVoS7HiGPolonia, polska racja stanu a profesjonalna niemoc – https://t.co/xZvYnTEBhL https://t.co/y2nAXBBFkbOne 'rant,' rough talks sour G7 mood in confrontations with Trump https://t.co/eFt0ye0Cuk  Stop Act HR 1226 is a political and educational initiative of the Polish-American community, which feels that congressional Bills S.447 and H.R.1226 pose a true, existential threat to Poland. The Stop Act HR 1226 initiative was born after the wake-up call delivered by the approval of Bill S. 447 by the U.S. Senate.  The Stop Act HR 1226 initiative has spearheaded community-wide opposition to the anti-Polish media attacks and the anti-Polish congressional legislative agenda. Our task is to ensure that neither the present nor any potential similar bills in the future ever become U.S. law. Together, let’s fight media distortions of history and growing anti-Polish propaganda.

All war images courtesy of the Polish National Digital Archive, the image of the U.S. Capitol with lightning strike behind courtesy of the Architect of the Capitol, the painting of Cesare Maccari, “Cicero Denounces Catiline” (1889) is in the public domain in the USA.