
					A photograph captures a cheerleader suffering an unfortunate bout of diarrhea in mid-air as her horrified teammates watch.									An of an unfortunate cheerleader whose picture was snapped in the middle of what looked to be an incredibly poorly timed episode of gastrointestinal distress (along with the reactions of her arguably even less lucky teammates) made the rounds of social media sites in 2014: 
This.  Is.  Hilarious.  I mean, so sad.  This girl will NEVER EVER be the same.  Her reputation is forever tarnished.  Because of pooh.
The photograph (without attribution) was widely circulated across meme sharing sites and sports blogs as the real deal. But with few corroborating details attached, many readers were rightly skeptical of the crassly humorous image.The image (often simply referred to as “cheerleader poops”) began to travel across social sites such as Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter accompanied by the usual musings about whether it was real. It didn’t take long for a backstory to emerge to explain the image and resolve some of the questions about its plausibility (e.g., the issue of athletic briefs being standard issue attire for cheerleaders, and whether such an accident could occur in their presence).As it turns out, the image of the cheerleader in red was a digital manipulation, not an authentic one. The original photograph was submitted to the Reddit community’s “Photoshop Battles” subreddit (r/photoshopbattles) as a challenge titled “Terrified Cheerleaders,” and the viral pic was one of many alterations subsequently applied to the original photograph:As can be seen in the unaltered image displayed above, the cheerleader shown in the picture was unlucky only in becoming the subject of a meme and did not suffer the fate shown in the viral version of her picture. Snopes.com has long been engaged in the battle against misinformation, an effort we could not sustain without the support of our readers. If you'd like to learn more about how you can support us, click here. 
Fact Checker:
Snopes Staff
Published:6 October 2014
10 June 2018
						A fake news site twisted information about self-serve kiosks into a false claim that McDonald's is replacing all their cashiers with "robots."		
10 June 2018
						A disreputable web site with a penchant for pedophilia-related clickbait deceptively reported a years-old story as current news.		
9 June 2018
						An arrested Florida man professed an intent to kill child molesters, but he didn't kill, set fire to, or "barbecue" anyone.		
9 June 2018
						A haunting photograph and a stirring tale of maternal sacrifice: one is real, the other isn't.		
9 June 2018
						Some fake news sites just can't get over their obsessions with pederasty, likely because it makes for effective clickbait material.		
8 June 2018
						Authorities have determined a skull found roughly 20 miles from an abandoned homeless camp belonged to an adult.		
8 June 2018
						The Department of Health and Human Services announced that 10,773 unaccompanied immigrant children were indeed in detention facilities as of May 2018.		
8 June 2018
						A blog devoted to the roundly-debunked "Pizzagate" story reprinted an equally false post from 2014 about the leader of the Catholic Church.		
12 April 2018
						An evidence-free Internet meme says that tilapia, one of the most popular freshwater fish consumed in the United States, is "killing our families."		
11 May 2008
						Criminals in the U.S. are not using burundanga-soaked business cards to incapacitate their victims, despite a recurrent warning.		
6 February 2018
						Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.		
21 June 2000
						The long-standing claim that Jane Fonda turned smuggled messages from U.S. POWs over to their North Vietnamese captors is false.		
16 October 2015
						Donald Trump did not proclaim that Republicans are the "dumbest group of voters" in a 1998 'People' magazine interview.		
6 February 2018
						Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.		
26 May 2018
						An official from Health and Human Services reported to a Senate subcommittee that 1,475 unaccompanied migrant children are unaccounted for.		
23 February 2018
						A Facebook meme gets the basic facts right about the gun lobby's status as a social welfare organization.		
23 January 2018
						Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.		
15 February 2018
						In February 2017, President Trump repealed an Obama-era regulation that would have made it easier to block the sale of firearms to people with certain mental illnesses.		Urban Legends Reference Pages© 1995- by Snopes.com | This material may not be reproduced without permission | Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use |