If you continue, we’ll assume you are happy to receive all cookies on our website. You can disable cookies at any time by changing your browser settings. Learn more about how we use cookies here.You don’t just purchase a Rolls-Royce, you commission it. A motor car that is yours, and yours alone. Every Rolls-Royce that leaves Goodwood is unique to its owner. Our configurator lets you begin the Bespoke design process. Take your inspiration from anywhere, then bring your vision to life.
10 ResultsAn error has occurred. Please try again later.1 ResultYour search produced no results. Perhaps try another?Are you an existing Rolls-Royce owner?Please keep me informed, so I can receive:Information on products and services which are of interest to me.Personalised communications delivered by the method that suits me best.Unique opportunities to have my say and help shape the future of Rolls-Royce Motor CarsPlease select the channels we may use to contact you:You can amend or withdraw your marketing preferences, or request information about your data stored by us at any time. More InformationAre you an existing Rolls-Royce owner?Please keep me informed, so I can receive:Information on products and services which are of interest to me.Personalised communications delivered by the method that suits me best.Unique opportunities to have my say and help shape the future of Rolls-Royce Motor CarsPlease select the channels we may use to contact you:You can amend or withdraw your marketing preferences, or request information about your data stored by us at any time. More InformationPlease keep me informed, so I can receive:Information on products and services which are of interest to me.Personalised communications delivered by the method that suits me best.Unique opportunities to have my say and help shape the future of Rolls-Royce Motor CarsPlease select the channels we may use to contact you:You can amend or withdraw your marketing preferences, or request information about your data stored by us at any time. More InformationPlease keep me informed, so I can receive:Information on products and services which are of interest to me.Personalised communications delivered by the method that suits me best.Unique opportunities to have my say and help shape the future of Rolls-Royce Motor CarsPlease select the channels we may use to contact you:You can amend or withdraw your marketing preferences, or request information about your data stored by us at any time. More InformationAre you an existing Rolls-Royce owner?Please keep me informed, so I can receive:Information on products and services which are of interest to me.Personalised communications delivered by the method that suits me best.Unique opportunities to have my say and help shape the future of Rolls-Royce Motor CarsPlease select the channels we may use to contact you:You can amend or withdraw your marketing preferences, or request information about your data stored by us at any time. More InformationAre you an existing Rolls-Royce owner?Please keep me informed, so I can receive:Information on products and services which are of interest to me.Personalised communications delivered by the method that suits me best.Unique opportunities to have my say and help shape the future of Rolls-Royce Motor CarsPlease select the channels we may use to contact you:You can amend or withdraw your marketing preferences, or request information about your data stored by us at any time. More InformationAre you an existing Rolls-Royce owner?Please keep me informed, so I can receive:Information on products and services which are of interest to me.Personalised communications delivered by the method that suits me best.Unique opportunities to have my say and help shape the future of Rolls-Royce Motor CarsPlease select the channels we may use to contact you:You can amend or withdraw your marketing preferences, or request information about your data stored by us at any time. More InformationYou can amend or withdraw your marketing preferences by contacting us via one of the following channels:
Calling the Customer Contact Team on +44 (0)1243 525700 (09:00 - 17:00 Monday to Friday) Sending an email to enquiries@rolls-roycemotorcars.com. You are also able to use the above channels to ask us for information about the personal data Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Limited stores about you, as well as request the correction, deletion or restriction of use of your personal data. Further details regarding the processing of your personal data can be found in our Privacy Policy.You agree that Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Limited (‘us’, ‘our’, ‘we’), may process and use your personal data to communicate information about our products, services and events which we think may be of interest to you, via your chosen channels. Such communications may include requests to participate in customer experience feedback sessions.In order to ensure that you receive relevant and personalised communications, we will use data we hold about you to create an individual customer profile. This may include but is not limited to data you have provided to us or which is generated by your use of our products, for example contact details, preferences, customer history, vehicle data, usage of apps and other digital platforms and online behaviour. Further information about these customer profiles can be found in our Privacy Policy.Not what you were looking for? See our