
Monday 11 June 2018

Samuel Osborne

May 17 2018 9:44 PM

Men will be fined for wolf-whistling or making sexual comments towards women in France, as part of new tougher legislation to combat lecherous behaviour.
Those who break the law will face on-the-spot fines of up to €750.France's president, Emmanuel Macron, said the law was meant to ensure "women are not afraid to be outside."The country's minister for gender equality, Marlene Schiappa, was previously asked about the difficulty of drawing a line between harassment and flirtation.She said: "We know very well at what point we start feeling intimidated, unsafe or harassed in the street."Ms Schiappa had previously called for a change to consent laws, so minors under 15 who have sex with adults over 18 would be presumed not to have given their consent.However, France's lower parliament stopped short of setting a legal age of sexual consent and instead approved a clause in which relations between an adult and a minor under 15 could be classified as rape if "the victim lacks the ability to consent". In such cases, it would be classified a "sexual assault" and the maximum prison sentence for that is doubled to 10 years. Rape of children under 15 is punishable by 20 years in prison.The legislation will also give underage victims of rape an additional 10 years to file complaints, up from 20 years after they turn 18 to 30 years.Women's rights groups, who pushed for a firm age limit, reacted angrily to the vote.
Online Editors
Nick Squires in Rome Italy and Malta were in a tense stand-off last night over which country should accept an NGO rescue boat carrying nearly 630 migrants.David Chazan in Paris Paris's first "coffee shops" selling legal cannabis have attracted long queues of customers eager to try a low-strength version of the drug now permitted under French law.James Badcock in Madrid Spain's new socialist government has hit out at a leading Spanish newspaper's "sexist" report advising the new majority-female cabinet on how to use their feminine charms.Today's news headlines, directly to your inbox every morning.

Sign Up

Summer is here, and suddenly you have time on... 
WHY did someone... 
German chancellor Angela Merkel’s spokesman has not offered any advice on how to... 
With Angela Merkel staring at a closed-off Donald... 
A family out for a day’s fishing spotted five giant... 
US president Donald Trump and North Korean... 
Parody Twitter accounts aren’t in short supply, so... 
US president Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un are preparing for... 
Not everything gets resolved in life, and those... 
Many fans go to hundreds of baseball or cricket... 
A suicide bomber has struck outside a government ministry in the Afghan... 
Pope Francis has accepted the resignation of the... 
President Donald Trump is in Singapore to meet with North Korean leader Kim... 
Prince George and Princess Charlotte... 
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un arrives in... 
US President Donald Trump withdraws... 
US President Donald Trump has said his... 
Kim Jong Un and Donald Trump lookalikes stroll through Singapore ahead of an... 
Donald Trump has lashed out at Canada and... 
A woman serving life for non-violent drug... 
Ohio Department of Transport releases... 
Thousands of protesters have swarmed into the... © Independent.ie 