Story so far:Man who died after an attack outside Ballincolling, Cork named as Mikolaj 'Nik' Wilk (35)His partner Elzbieta was injuredA gang of up to four men broke into their home; two young children and another woman were not injuredA car was found burned out in WaterfallBy Olivia KelleherLatest: The Polish chaplain in Cork has said that the late Mikolaj Wilk, his wife Elzbieta and their two young children will feature in the thoughts and prayers of the community after the father of two was murdered when a gang of up to four men burst in to his home on the outskirts of Ballincollig, Co Cork in the early hours of this morning. Fr Piotr Galus said the death of the Polish gardener was a "savage" crime."I didn't know the man personally but I can say that we will involve those people in our prayers. We will pray for the family. ''We will offer any support we can to the family. For the father of a family to be murdered in his home. This is a crime with no nationalities. Anyone could be a victim of this."Gardaí have said that there is no known motive for the stabbing to death of Mr Wilk (35) and the injuring of his wife Elzbieta who is also in her thirties. Mikołaj and Elzbieta Wilk.The men entered the house armed with weapons including machetes. The husband and wife lived in a bungalow at Bridge House, Maglin Bridge, Ballincollig, Co Cork with their two children who are under the age of six.Mikolaj, whom friends called "Nik", was known locally for running a gardening business and had lived in Ireland for at least five years.Speaking at a press conference outside the house where the attack occurred, Superintendent Colm O'Sullivan said gardai responded to the incident at 3.17am this morning and were on the scene in less than five minutes. The assailants had fled the area at this point in a car. On arrival, gardaí found that Mr Wilk had life-threatening injuries. He was rushed to Cork University Hospital (CUH) where he died shortly after 5am. Elzbieta is being treated in CUH for non life-threatening injuries. A second woman in her thirties and the couple's children, all of whom were in the house, were not harmed in the incident.  At 4am this today, Cork County Service Fire responded to the scene of a fire of a car at Inniskenny in Waterfall, Co Cork. A BMW Three Series car, which gardai believe the men were driving, was burned out.
The scene of the attack has been forensically examined and a family liaison officer has been appointed. House to house inquiries are ongoing as are CCTV checks in the area.The Coroner has been notified and a postmortem will take place at CUH at 9am today.Supt O'Sullivan said it was tragic to see a man leave a wife, family and friends behind in such circumstances."Our thoughts are with his family and friends at this time. We are appealing for any information the public may have.''This morning people would have been returning from a night out or going to or from work. ''If you noticed anything in the Maglin, Ballincollig, Ballinora or Waterfall areas please contact An Garda Siochana. We are appealing to taxi drivers who may have been dropping or collecting people in those areas to contact us. We are appealing to any person who may have a Dashcam in their car and travels in these areas to contact us."Supt O'Sullivan said it was a busy road and junction and that someone must have witnessed unusual activity."They must have witnessed something. It may appear to someone as quite significant but to us it could be significant. It is early in the investigation. ''We are appealing to the public. We believe there might be up to four people involved."''We are appealing to the public. We believe there might be up to four people involved."Gardai said they were unable rule motives in or out with Supt O'Sullivan adding that it was a "tragic incident."Meanwhile, Southern Correspondent for TV3, Paul Byrne, who knew the deceased through his gardening work, said that Mr Wilk was the "salt of the earth.""He couldn't do more for you. He was a hard worker."The house where the murder occurred was preserved for a technical examination and two vehicles, a Mercedes and a Kia Jeep, were also removed from the bungalow to be forensically examined by gardai. It is understood that a gun was recovered from the burned-out car in Waterfall. This will be forensically examined. Gardai are appealing for witnesses or anyone with information to contact them at Gurranabraher on 021 4946200, the Garda Confidential Line on 1800 666 111 or any Garda station.They are also asking anyone who may have seen a BMW leave the area at high speed to contact them. They are also anxious to speak to motorists who may possess relevant Dashcam Footage. Mikołaj Wilk.Update: Man killed after attack in Cork namedA Polish man who was killed following an attack in Ballincollig has been named as Mikołaj Wilk.The 35-year old, who was known as 'Nik', and his wife, Elzbieta, were attacked in their home in the early hours of this morning.A gang of men armed with weapons broke into the house where two young children were also present at the time.Gardaí have launched a murder investigation, but no motive has been confirmed at this stage of the inquiry.Update: Gardaí to give briefing following brutal attack of man in CorkBy Niall Murray and Eoin English Gardaí will outline this evening what is known so far about the death of a Polish man following a brutal attack on him and his partner outside Ballincollig, Co Cork.The business owner, aged in his 30s, died after a gang of men armed with unknown weapons broke into the couple’s house at around 3am. Another woman, also in her 30s, and two young children were also in the house at the time.The man’s death was confirmed this morning by gardaí investigating the attack, for which no motive has been confirmed at this stage of the inquiry. However, it is understood that the man or his partner were not known to gardaí in relation to criminal activity.Gardai at the scene of the attack. Pic: Larry CumminsA media briefing is expected to be held locally later this afternoon to provide details of what is known so far and advise the public how they may be able to assist gardaí with their investigation.The woman underwent surgery at Cork University Hospital in the early hours of this morning following the attack.The couple were living at a house about 1.5km from Ballincollig town, in a rural area dotted with one-off houses a few hundred metres south of the busy N22 Cork-Macroom Road.Gardaí continue to keep sealed off the short cul de sac where the bungalow was located, opposite a junction which the attackers may have taken to get away from the scene. The car in which they were travelling, understood to have been a BMW, was found few kilometres away at Waterfall this morning and has been removed for forensic examination.Late this morning, gardaí also removed two vehicles from the property where the attack took place, which also appeared to have been in previous use as a farm. The Mercedes van and a KIA SUV-type vehicle were taken from the house by private removal truck.At local Masses in Ballincollig this morning, prayers were said for the dead man as news began to emerge that he had died from his injuries. Local councillor Daithi O Donnabhain said what he understood of the crime was shocking and worrying.“For an organised gang to break into a one-off country house in the middle of the night and set upon and attack an individual who then loses his life, it’s just awful. And God help those children who must have at least heard what went on,” he said.“My thoughts and sympathies go to the family and friends of the man who has lost his life,” the local Fianna Fail councillor said.A French man who was out cycling said he had lived in the area for decades and had never heard of any major incident before this morning. A motive for the attack is not known at this juncture. The victim had lived in Ireland for a number of years and ran a local gardening business. Gardaí removed two vehicles from the scene of the attack this morning. Pic: Larry CumminsUpdate: Gardaí launch murder probe after man dies in attack by gang with weapons in CorkA man attacked by a number of men with weapons in Cork this morning has died.He, along with his partner, were taken to Cork University Hospital for treatment.The man died of very serious injuries in the hospital while his partner, a woman in her 30s, suffered injuries not believed to be life-threatening. It happened after a group of men forced their way into their isolated bungalow in the Maglin Road area of Ballincollig.The investigation has now been upgraded from aggravated burglary to a murder investigation and the scene has been preserved for a technical examination.A post-mortem will be carried out later.Gardaí at the scene off Maglin road, Ballincollig, Co. Cork, this morning. Pic: Denis MinihaneLocal Councillor Daithí O'Donnabháin told Rob McNamara of the Evening Echo the area of Ballincollig is in shock over the incident, especially as young children were in the home at the time of the assault.“There is a family who were in the house with young children and you have to think of the trauma that they must be going through at this time,” he said.“Your heart would have to go out to them and the family. No doubt, there will be a level of high trauma and shock because this would have had to have been seen and witnessed by them. I’d have huge concern for their wellbeing.I’d have huge concern for their wellbeing.“The location where it happened is at the edge of the town where it heads toward the Ballinora-Waterfall parish. There are not a lot of houses surrounding the location of this incident,” he added.Earlier: Couple in hospital after being attacked by gang with weapons in CorkA man and woman are in hospital after being attacked by a number of men with weapons in Cork.Gardaí believed that a number of men with weapons went into the couple's house in Ballincollig, Co. Cork, and assaulted them shortly after 3am this morning. They were taken to Cork University Hospital for treatment where the man's injuries are described as very serious, while his partner's injuries, a woman in her 30s, are not believed to be life-threatening. Gardaí at the scene off Maglin road, Ballincollig, Co. Cork, this morning. Pic: Denis MinihaneThere was another woman, in her early 30s, and two children under six years in the house at the time of the incident and they were unharmed.The house has been preserved for a technical examination, and a car was found burnt out a number of kilometres away in Waterfall, Co. Cork, and this has also been preserved for a technical examination.Gardaí are appealing for witnesses, or anyone with information, to contact them at Gurranabraher on 021 4946200, the Garda Confidential Line on 1800 666 111 or any Garda station.- Digital DeskReceive our lunchtime briefing straight to your inboxRelated ArticlesLatest: Post-mortem underway after man (45) dies in BrayBobby Messett remembered as a 'kind, gentle family man whose life has been cut short'European drug use report: Illegal allureMan arrested in Limerick after package of drugs allegedly found taped to one of his legsMore in this SectionMan hijacks car with baby inside in Dublin's Phoenix ParkEconomic optimism driving rise in retirement planningGovt funds 10 new IT apprentice programmes as HEA plans new 'university of creative arts'Fianna Fáil demands to know if €400m from Bord Gais Energy sale was spent on social housingToday's StoriesWest Cork church offers classes in traditional bell-ringingKillarney wildlife park shuts 'because of red tape'Cobh to get sculpture of ‘Gorgeous Gael’ Jack DoyleLeo Varadkar faces some tight squeezes as shine wears off a year after ascentLifestyleNew father’s life ‘changed forever’ after he was run over by surgeonThe biggest cancer killer will take your breath awayHopefully she had an idea...Power of the press: Meryl Streep and Tom Hanks discuss 'The Post'More From The Irish Examinerfor your new job








© Irish Examiner Ltd, Linn Dubh, Assumption Road, Blackpool, Cork. Registered
in Ireland: 523712.
Posted By: fundator
27 maja 2018
Jak wynika z naszej praktyki RODO w dalszym ciągu sprawia najwięcej problemów małym przedsiębiorcom, a szczególnie przedsiębiorcom prowadzącym 1-os. działalność gospodarczą. Często pytacie nas Państwo w mejlach o to, czy jako prowadzący jednoosobową działalność gospodarczą, nie zatrudniającą żadnych pracowników jesteście zobowiązani do wdrożenia RODO na równych zasadach co duże przedsiębiorstwa.Otóż niestety – TAK. Zakres obowiązywania RODO jest jasny i stanowi, że przepisy RODO obowiązują wszystkich przedsiębiorców, którzy w ramach swojej działalności gospodarczej w jakikolwiek sposób przetwarzają dane osobowe (m.in. imię i nazwisko, dane do faktury itp.) osób fizycznych (np. swoich klientów, lub kontrahentów prowadzących jednoosobowe działalności gospodarcze), bez względu na to, czy zatrudniają pracowników, czy nie.„Przetwarzanie” oznacza jakiekolwiek operacje wykonywane na danych osobowych, takie jak:Przykład 1:Pan Janusz prowadzi 1-os działalność polegającą na renowacji silników samochodowych. Wykonuje swoje usługi osobiście i nie zatrudnia żadnych pracowników. Swoje usługi świadczy zarówno na rzecz klientów indywidualnych jak i przedsiębiorców. Pan Janusz przyjmując samochód do warsztatu zapisuje sobie w notesie imię i nazwisko właściciela pojazdu oraz numer telefonu pod który dzwoni z informacją, że usługa została wykonana, a pojazd jest gotowy do odbioru. W przypadku przedsiębiorców odnotowuje również adres oraz numer NIP, w celu wystawienia faktury. W przytoczonej sytuacji, nawet jeśli założymy, że Pan Janusz nie prowadzi żadnej elektronicznej ewidencji klientów, sprzedaży internetowej, żadnej formy marketingu, a wszystkie faktury przekazuje do biura rachunkowego to z uwagi przetwarzanie danych osobowych na czas naprawy samochodu znajdą do niego zastosowanie przepisy RODO. Pan Janusz będzie zatem zobowiązany do wdrożenia u siebie RODO i wprowadzenia odpowiednich środków techniczno-organizacyjnych, umożliwiających bezpieczne oraz zgodne z przepisami przetwarzanie danych osobowych.Przykład 2:Pani Agnieszka prowadzi małe 1-os biuro rachunkowe w ramach którego rozlicza wyłącznie przedsiębiorców prowadzących jednoosobowe działalności gospodarcze. Raz w miesiącu, klienci przynoszą Pani Agnieszce faktury do rozliczenia. Zdarza się, że klient wystawia odręcznie napisaną, jedną fakturę miesięcznie.W takiej sytuacji również znajdą zastosowanie przepisy RODO, albowiem biuro rachunkowe nie tylko przetwarza dane osobowe swoich klientów (przedsiębiorców, których rozlicza) ale również dane osobowe kontrahentów swoich klientów (chociażby dane osobowe zawarte na fakturach klientów), a także dane osobowe pracowników tych kontrahentów. Nie ma również znaczenia ilość faktur do rozliczenia oraz to, czy są wystawione za pomocą programu do fakturowania czy odręcznie. W związku z powyższym takie biuro rachunkowe powinno wdrożyć u siebie RODO oraz zadbać m.in. o to, żeby zawrzeć stosowną umowę powierzenia (o której pisaliśmy tutaj) ze swoimi klientami.Jak widać na podstawie przytoczonych przykładów RODO ma zastosowanie niemal do każdego przedsiębiorcy. Właściwie trudno jest nam wyobrazić sobie firmę, w której RODO nie musi zostać wdrożone. Nie ma znaczenia ani charakter, ani wielkość przedsiębiorstwa.Co przy tym ważne, co budzi największe wątpliwości naszych Czytelników – nawet jeśli przetwarzanie danych nie jest Państwa główną działalnością to musicie mieć świadomość, że pewne operacje na danych osobowych po prostu się u Państwa dzieją – mam tu na myśli chociażby kwestie związane z korespondencją z klientami czy fakturowanie.Z uwagi na to wszystko zarówno Facebook’a jak i Pana Janusza zajmującego się renowacją silników obowiązywać będą te same reguły. Nie oznacza to jednakże, że mali przedsiębiorcy powinni w sposób szczególny obawiać się RODO, a Pan Janusz będzie zobowiązany wdrożyć kosztowne środki celem zabezpieczenia przetwarzanych u siebie danych osobowych. Nie musi w szczególności zamawiać do warsztatu żadnego sejfu na swój kajet, ani szafy pancernej rzekomo spełniającej kryteria RODO – bo widzieliśmy na allegro, że i takie absurdalne oferty zaczęły się pojawiać. W ramach audytu ochrony danych osobowych specjaliści, w tym członkowie naszej  Fundacji – za darmo – dokonują bowiem analizy ryzyka dla przetwarzania danych osobowych oraz wskazują niezbędny zakres środków techniczno-organizacyjnych, umożliwiający prowadzenie działalności z zachowaniem wymogów RODO oraz ochrony danych osobowych. RODO zakłada bowiem, aby podejmowane środki ochrony danych były podejmowane do rozmiarów prowadzonej działalności, a także do zagrożeń, które w danym przedsiębiorstwie mogą wystąpić. Skoro rozporządzenie ma zastosowanie zarówno do podmiotów ogromnych jak i małych, to podobnie jak w zakresie kar – tak i w zakresie środków ochrony następuje pewna gradacja.Ze swojej strony, jako Fundacja, oferujemy Państwu bezpłatny audyt, który pomoże znaleźć te obszary, które wymagają poprawy. Nasza oferta znajduje się pod tym linkiem. Znajduje się tam również formularz kontaktowy – ewentualnie mogą Państwo wysłać do nas zapytanie w formie e-mail na adres: kontakt@fundacjaentropia.pl.Jako Fundacja zajmująca się tematyką ochrony danych osobowych staramy się zawsze uwzględniać możliwości naszych klientów proponując im pomoc w trakcie wdrażania nowych regulacji. Nigdy nie rekomendujemy też środków nazbyt kosztownych, które przerastałyby możliwości finansowe danego Przedsiębiorcy. Wszystkim polecamy natomiast zachowanie zdrowego rozsądku przy okazji wprowadzania RODO w swoich Firmach.   Darmowy audyt RODO!Najbliższe terminy: 8 i 9 czerwcaMiejsce: JaworznoKoszt – tylko 299 złZapisy – szkolenie@fundacjaentropia.plCopyright 2018 | MH Newsdesk lite by MH Themes