Jak donosi dziennik „Rheinische Post”, powołując się na dane Instytutu Badań Rynku Pracy i Zatrudnienia IAB co czwarty uchodźca, który w ubiegłych trzech latach przybył do Niemiec z regionów objętych wojną i kryzysami, ma pracę, a co piąty ma zatrudnienie z pełnymi świadczeniami. Jeżeli zatrudnienie uchodźców będzie dalej tak rosło, to za 5 lat połowa imigrantów będzie miała pracę - powiedział szef działu migracji IAB Herbert Bruecker. Według jego szacunków do końca br. miesięcznie dalszych 8500 do 10 000 uchodźców będzie znajdowało pracę.Najczęściej zatrudnienie w Niemczech znajdowali Pakistańczycy. W lutym 2018 około 40 proc. pakistańskich imigrantów miało pracę. Podobnie wysoki jest odsetek wśród imigrantów z Nigerii i Iranu. Najwięcej wniosków o azyl złożyli w RFN uchodźcy z Syrii. Z tej grupy do tej pory co piąty odnalazł się na niemieckim rynku pracy. Zazwyczaj imigranci wykonują prace niewymagające dobrej znajomości języka. Co trzeci z nich znajduje zatrudnienie tymczasowe. 11 proc. pracuje w gastronomii i hotelarstwie oraz firmach usługowych: sprzątających, logistycznych czy ochroniarskich. Co drugi imigrant wykonuje prace wymagające kwalifikacji. Bardzo niewielu uchodźców pracuje w przemyśle. Związane jest to z kwalifikacjami nabytymi w ojczyźnie - bardzo wielu uchodźców już wcześniej pracowało w branży usługowej - wyjaśnia Herbert Bruecker.Według niemieckich przepisów o pozwolenie na pracę może ubiegać się każda osoba w trzy miesiące po złożeniu wniosku o azyl. W ciągu pierwszych miesięcy pobytu przysługuje im tylko ograniczone prawo do podejmowania pracy. Osoby, które uzyskały azyl mają pełny dostęp do rynku pracy. Także osoby mające status pobytu tolerowanego (Duldung) mają możliwość zatrudnienia na określonych warunkach.This browser does not support the iframe element.Jak zaznacza badacz z IAB, nie każdy imigrant, który ma zatrudnienie, może się z niego utrzymać. 15 proc. wszystkich uchodźców, którzy otrzymują zapomogi socjalne, ma pracę, ale musi zwracać się do państwa o wyrównanie, by starczyło im na życie. W ten sposób wzrasta nie tylko liczba czynnych zawodowo osób, ale także osób wymagających wsparcia socjalnego ze względu na niskie zarobki. Ogólnie uchodźcy stanowią 14 proc. wszystkich osób pobierających w Niemczech zapomogi socjalne.
		Żadna część jak i całość utworów zawartych w dzienniku nie może być powielana i rozpowszechniana lub dalej rozpowszechniana w jakiejkolwiek formie i w jakikolwiek sposób (w tym także elektroniczny lub mechaniczny lub inny albo na wszelkich polach eksploatacji) włącznie z kopiowaniem, szeroko pojętę digitalizację, fotokopiowaniem lub kopiowaniem, w tym także zamieszczaniem w Internecie - bez pisemnej zgody Gremi Media SA. Jakiekolwiek użycie lub wykorzystanie utworów w całości lub w części bez zgody Gremi Media SA lub autorów z naruszeniem prawa jest zabronione pod groźbą kary i może być ścigane prawnie.
	
        Rozpowszechnianie niniejszego artykułu możliwe jest tylko i wyłącznie zgodnie z postanowieniami "Regulaminu korzystania z artykułów prasowych" [Poprzednia wersja obowiązująca do 30.01.2017]. Formularz zamówienia można pobrać na stronie www.rp.pl/licencja.
    Dostępne tylko dla zalogowanego użytkownika.Uzyskaj dostęp do aktualnego E-wydaniaMasz aktywną subskrypcję? Zaloguj się lub wypróbuj za darmo wydanie testowe.nie masz jeszcze konta w serwisie? Dołącz do nasUzyskaj dostęp do E-wydania lub wypróbuj za darmo



An Old Bailey jury heard six girls were drugged and suffered sadistic abuse while aged between 11 and 15.The court heard victims were plied with alcohol and drugs   before being forced to perform sex acts. Some had also been beaten,   burnt and threatened.Nine men had denied charges including rape, arranging child prostitution and trafficking between 2004 and 2012.Two were acquitted of all charges.The judge told the guilty men: "You have been convicted of   the most serious offences and long custodial sentences are inevitable." .They are due to be sentenced on 26 June 2013.The abuse began in Oxford but some of the victims would be   later taken around the country to be offered to other men who were in   contact with the gang. Victim: "I was scared to say no"The court heard how the men identified vulnerable girls for   abuse then groomed each one of them until they were under the control of   the gang. Acts of physical and sexual violence escalated into using objects to cause pain and humiliation. The court heard girls were tied up, burnt, suffocated, bitten, scratched and urinated upon.Jurors were told most of the victims chose to take vast   quantities of hard drugs to deaden their senses, particularly when they   knew they were being hired out to a large group of men for gang abuse   sessions that could go on for days.The victims would return to Oxford bleeding, injured and carrying sexually-transmitted diseases. One of the victims described being plied with hard drugs and   forced to have sex with strangers while being filmed at the age of 13.On one occasion she was given so much crack cocaine she could not breathe and was rushed to hospital.Hundreds of children and young people   have suffered - their almost unimaginable torment apparently invisible   to the world around them”Another, who was groomed at the   age of 11, said she fell in love with Mohammed Karrar who raped her,   beat her with a baseball bat and forced her to have an illegal back-room   abortion when she was 12-years-old.She said of her abuse: "At the time I thought it was my   choice and it was fine, but years on I can see I never had a choice. I   said 'no' but I didn't have a say."It was literally like a normal relationship but I know now it isn't a normal relationship. I was a child."He told me he loved me. He said he would take me to Saudi Arabia when I was 15 and marry me. I believed him at the time."A number of opportunities to catch members of the gang are   believed to have been missed and prosecutors, the police and social   services have apologised for any failings.The jury at the Old Bailey considered the evidence for two-and-a-half days and returned the following verdicts.There was a scuffle in the dock as Ahmed struck out at Mohammed Hussain when he was cleared of the charges against him.Mr Hussain was found not guilty of three counts of sex with a child.The Old Bailey was told the key members of the group used and   abused the six victims in a systematic and organised sex trafficking   ring over eight years until their arrest in 2012.The court heard how the men identified vulnerable girls for   abuse and then groomed each one of them until they were under the   control of the gang. They were then each either abused by the men themselves, given   to their friends or offered at a price to others who were not on trial. The youngest girl to be targeted was 11-years-old. The girls   were mostly chosen because their unsettled or troubled lives made them   easier to manipulate.The Crown Prosecution Service said it would look again at its   decision to take no further action over allegations involving the girls   between 2005 and 2006.Baljit Ubhey, chief crown prosecutor for Thames and Chiltern,   said: "I think we could have been more proactive. Of four cases we   looked at, in three of those it's arguable we might have been able to do   more."I think what these cases have highlighted is that they're   probably not isolated incidents and there's probably more of this   activity going on."One of the victims had complained to police twice but no one was charged.A care home manager, who was later sacked, refused to pay her   taxi fare when she returned after running away and the 14-year-old was   driven back to Oxford where she was raped.The court heard girls, who had been placed in care by   Oxfordshire County Council for their own protection, would frequently   abscond and were caught with older men by police.Council chief executive Joanna Simons said: "We are incredibly sorry we were not able to stop it any sooner."We were up against a gang of devious criminals. The girls thought they were their friends."Det Ch Supt Rob Mason said: "Thames Valley Police and   Oxfordshire County Council social services deeply regret that this   activity wasn't identified sooner and that we were too reliant on   victims supporting criminal proceedings and that they suffered a   terrible ordeal."They ran it like an organised business. Men who   made money from abusing young girls while satisfying their own sexual   gratification.In their police interviews, they said little or nothing - even when pressed.But despite their silence, officers pieced together a   harrowing picture of disturbing abuse, which was presented to the jury   at the Old Bailey.Young girls were groomed, raped, abused and sold for sex by   the gang of Oxford men, who have now been convicted of a catalogue of   sex offences.Det Insp Simon Morton, of Thames Valley Police, said: "They   start out at 11 or 12 as ordinary girls, in our case, and by the time   they're finished they're hollow. "They are shells of what they should be and the little girl in there is gone. "It's sexual atrocities, it's torture."You can't report it, you can't put it on TV, you can't write it down. We have had members of the press in tears in court. "It's been horrendous."So who were the men who subjected these girls to such violent abuse - and who were the ringleaders?Mohammed Karrar was the most prolific offender in the case.The 38-year-old's family is thought to originate from   Eritrea, in East Africa, but he grew up in his parents' house on the   Cowley Road. He organised sex parties where he prostituted and raped girls in partnership with his younger brother Bassam, 33, a married father who worked as a security guard and also lived in Oxford.Mohammed was also married, having met and married his wife in Morocco and brought her to the UK approximately a decade ago. With no job, he would spend his days with her at his parents   house in Cowley and nights with his mistress in Marston - when he was   not carrying out horrific acts of abuse. In 2005, he had two children by the two different women, born   less than two weeks apart. By the time he was arrested, he was a father   of four. The brothers separately and together subjected victims three and four to a string of violent and sadistic rapes, often leaving them injured. After grooming them for about a year, they took them to other   places around the county to be sold and raped in hotels and "brothels   for young girls".Other men paid them to play out sadistic sexual fantasies and gang rape victim four.Mohammed Karrar forced victim four to have an illegal backroom abortion when she became pregnant. She was 12 years old.He was friends with the Dogar brothers. The Dogar brothers were well-known faces in the east Oxford community.Thirty-two-year-old Akhtar, or "Spider" as   he was known, "ruled the Cowley Road", according to one of his victims.   He would hang around there drinking and chatting to girls when not   working as a hospital porter. His younger brother Anjum, or "Jami", 31, was unemployed.The Dogar brothers were ringleaders of the grooming gang and the other men were scared of them, according to the victims.They were instrumental in planning the girls' prostitution and abuse together with Kamar Jamil.The Dogars abused victims one, two and three over four years. For up to a year they would groom their victims, give them alcohol and drugs and buy them presents to "make them feel special".But once they had gained their trust, the abuse would start.They took the girls out in cars and to hotels, guesthouses,   empty houses, parks and woods where they raped them and charged other   men to do the same.Men would even be invited from Bradford, Leeds, Slough and   other parts of the country to come to Oxford - and charged to take their   turn to rape the girls.Sarah Lazenby, who lives on same street as the Dogars, said   she was surprised to learn of the actions of two men from a family she   still supports.She said: "I was shocked when these two young men from our street were arrested. "We saw all the police activity then it came out in the news.   I would never have guessed they would be involved in something like   this."The Dogars grew up on the same street as Kamar Jamil.Nicknamed "K-Dog" after a wrestler, Jamil went to Cheney School before studying computing at college.He had a string of jobs, working in a warehouse and as a car salesman. Identified by his victims thanks to his gold tooth, he   married his British girlfriend in an Islamic ceremony after she had his   child. By the time of his arrest, the 27-year-old had three children and was working as a supermarket security guard. Jamil operated in partnership with the Dogars, with whom he abused and prostituted victims one and two.He also knew the Karrar brothers and had previously worked with Assad Hussain.Assad Hussain, 32, is a former taxi driver who   at the time of the offences was working at the BMW plant in Cowley and   at Dominoes Pizza on the Cowley Road. Known as "Ash" or "Abi", he raped and abused victim one and five while she was being "controlled" by the Dogars.He would finish at about 10pm and then head to the Cowley Road, where he would meet up with friends to eat and drink. Zeeshan Ahmed, 27, lived above a grocer's shop on the Cowley Road.He was convicted of sexually abusing victim five at his flat.Zeeshan Ahmed was also the only of the men who was accused and found guilty of abusing victim six.Seven men have been   convicted at the Old Bailey of being involved in the systematic grooming   and trafficking of girls from the Oxford area into a life of sexual   abuse. At the heart of the prosecution was the testimony of six victims who had   been targeted, groomed and ultimately controlled and sold for sex with   men around the country.One had been only 11 years old when the gang first approached   her. When they gave their evidence, the youngest was 16 and the oldest   21. There were other victims who were not called as witnesses.All victims of sex attacks are entitled to anonymity under   the law. These are their stories, based on what was heard in court; they   contain graphic descriptions of sexual violence and abuse.The first victim had a happy home life until her mother began   drinking when she suffered post-natal depression after the birth of   another child.GIRL ONE'S ABUSE:By the time she was in secondary   school, the girl was smoking and playing truant and hanging around   Oxford city centre to avoid home.Akhtar and Anjum Dogar, two of the brothers at the centre of   the abuse, befriended her. She was later introduced to Kamar Jamil and   Assad Hussain.She would stay out all evening with the men, smoking and   drinking, and they would give her little gifts - and eventually cannabis   and cocaine."'They made me feel like I was kind of important," she said. But by the time she was 13, the men had forced her into sex   in guest houses and hotel rooms. The individual acts progressed to group   rapes.As the control moved into its next phase, the men began to   threaten her if she refused to meet them. They would sit outside her   home in a car or threaten to burn down the house with her family inside.The assaults progressed to more horrific abuse. Men would   come from Bradford, Leeds and Slough to rape her. She saw money change   hands as she was forced to have sex with five men a night. In one house she had seen other girls in a similar state,   curled up, waiting for the sex to start again. Like them, she reached a   stage where she took sufficient drugs to become so "wasted" she could   allow them to rape her and avoid threats and violence.She told the police of specific memories, including being   forced to have sex up to 20 times with a man who came with Moet   champagne and cocaine.Once, Jamil and the Dogar brothers drove her to a country   park. Another four men joined them and they threatened to cut off her   head if she did not perform sexual acts on all of them. She would go missing for a week a time - and would return   covered in bruises and cigarette burns. She began to self-harm and   frequently caught chlamydia. Girl One was taken into care. She eventually made a complaint   to the police against Akhtar Dogar and other men. Dogar was interviewed   in September 2006 but denied raping her.Just after her 16th birthday, the girl threw her phone away,   stopped taking drugs and went back to school in an attempt to distance   herself from her abusers. She has since gained qualifications and has a   new life and job.The second victim had been in care and foster placements from when she was seven years old in 1999.GIRL TWO'S ABUSEShe became involved in the abuse   after meeting Girl One in care who, in turn, introduced her to the Dogar   brothers and Kamar Jamil. Together, they would run away from the home   to meet the men.She was driven to alleyways and woods, various houses and   flats where she was raped by them and others. She recalled occasions   when she and Girl One would be in the same house being raped by   different men.They supplied her with alcohol and drugs, threatened her and   burnt her with a lighter. Akhtar Dogar once threatened to have her shot   if she did not comply with his demands. She once tried to flee through a window while in a flat where   she was expected to have sex with several men. But the window was too   small so she rang the police.When officers arrived, the place smelled of cannabis and the men had condoms and bundles of money.The girl admitted she was only 14 and had run away from a children's home and five men were arrested from the address.But the girl said she was too frightened of the men to allow a   case to progress. When a specialist child protection officer attempted   to take a video statement, she stated none of the men had abused her.She came forward only after she saw a news report about the men being arrested in March 2012.During the abuse, she told another girl who was in care: "I   have no choice. I just want to be loved. I've never been loved and this   shows me love."The third victim had a difficult and abusive childhood and was subsequently taken into care and adopted. But she would rebel and go missing - and while she wandered Oxford, she was identified and groomed by Mohammed Karrar.He introduced her to his brother Bassam and the Dogar   brothers and, following the pattern with Girl One, groomed and prepared   her."I was paying them with my body for   the drugs they were giving me. That was my life. That's all I had. I   just felt scared, alone and scared. In the end I was suicidal”But in the case of Girl Three,   she was trafficked around the country to satisfy the men's clients -   taken to properties where other men appeared to be running brothels   providing young girls. Sometimes she was sent away for days at a time. She was often   so intoxicated by drink and drugs that she cannot entirely recall all   of the abuse. On one occasion, the court heard, Mohammed Karrar had given her so much crack cocaine she ended up in hospital.To this day, she has no idea how many men she was sold to for sex.One of the key allegations in the trial was a rape by Bassam Karrar during which she thought she was going to die. Another resident at the guest house where this attack occurred called the police.Her adoptive mother says she repeatedly sought help from the   authorities to get her daughter back from the gang but she said nobody   was prepared to look at the whole picture of what was going on.You can read and listen to the full story of Girl Three - and how she has sought to rebuild her life - by following the link. Girl Four's story reveals considerable detail about the extent   of the child sex abuse ring that the Karrar brothers were involved in -   abuse involving men in other locations who are not on trial.GIRL FOUR'S ABUSEShe told the court she "made   friends" with Mohammed Karrar when she had just turned 11. She was small   for her age and it was clear she was still a relatively young child.Karrar groomed her and would violently rape her and threaten her with weapons.He also "branded" the girl to signify that she belonged to him.Karrar made Girl Four pregnant when she was 12 years old.   When she told him, he beat her up, then took her to a house in Reading,   where a primitive abortion was carried out that prosecutors said could   have killed her.The Karrars controlled her so much they would come to her   family home to rape her. Mohammed Karrar, the court heard, regarded her   as his property and he would charge men £500 to have sex with her.They would take her to homes in High Wycombe where she would   be subjected to gang rapes - incidents that she described as "torture   sex". The men would tie her up and gag her mouth with a ball to stop her   cries being heard.The men would play out abuse fantasies; sometimes she was left bleeding for days afterwards.In one of her few acts of defiance, she threatened Mohammed   Karrar with his own lock knife as he was preparing to rape her. He   knocked her out with a metal baseball bat. The girl revealed details of the abuse to social workers and   police. In 2008, another man, Amit Singh was jailed for 27 months after   pleading guilty to sexual activity with a child.The fifth victim was, at 16, the youngest to give evidence in   the trial, speaking from behind a screen. She had been abused right up   until the arrests in January 2012.GIRL FIVE'S ABUSEShe had spent parts of her   childhood in care and with foster parents.  She first met the men who   would abuse her when she was 12.The court heard the girl was abused by defendants Assad   Hussain, known as "Ash", and Zeeshan Ahmed.  Assad Hussain was linked to   Girl Five through DNA evidence.Although there was no evidence he abused her, Kamar Jamil, a   supermarket security guard, turned a blind eye to Girl Five and others   stealing vodka from his store. Akhtar Dogar tried to have sex with Girl   Five -  but she punched him in the face to stop him. She had also   received a call or made one to Mohammed Karrar's phone.Prosecutors told the Old Bailey that Girl Five's account was supported by the experiences of the final victim. On one occasion, Girl Five was in a house with the sixth   victim, Zeeshan Ahmed and two other men she described as Asian. She was   given cannabis and alcohol and passed out. The last girl to give evidence was friends with Girl Five,   through whom she met Zeeshan Ahmed and other older Asian men. They would   hang around with them in a park and she was slowly drawn into their   world of sexual control.GIRL SIX'S ABUSEShe said she visited Ahmed's flat with Girl Five, got drunk and smoked cannabis, but refused to take cocaine.She said that she witnessed Ahmed "sell" Girl Five to other men.There would be other men in the flat and she rejected their   advances and became concerned at the growing number of strangers hanging   around the flat.When she was 15, she said, she had had consensual sex with Ahmed when drunk.  Case Materials submitted:None.Reference   Khilafah II

                                This sequal will dominate 
                                world politics for all mankind, forever.


                              and more... 
UK2NET www.Islamic-truth.co.uk (domain)
                  Moved or broken link ? Email webmaster@islamic-truth.co.uk

Home | 
                  Feedback | Links 
                  | Discussion 
                  | Help | News 
                  | Audio Library 
                  | Resources | Mailing 
                  List | Magazine | 
                  Full Search
About ITG | Contact ITG | Privacy Statement | Legal Notices
                  NOTE: The views expressed in the content are those of the author 
                  and should not be interpreted as those of the Islamic Truth 
                  Group.
                  © 2002 Islamic Truth Group | Acceptable Use Policy | Online 
                  Privacy | Data Protection 




var sc_project=299208; 
var sc_partition=1; 

 




 