
Problem-solving, their creative solving and then seamlessly using the results of this process - in short, you can define the essence of Design Thinking, a method developed by the owner of the company IDEO!

The goal is to get innovative solutions by using such methods to stimulate creativity. As a result, actions are translated into the business schema. Design thinking is based on project thinking, whose task is to provide creative solutions that are ready to be implemented.

One of the advantages of this training is the ability to use it from start-up to corporation. The universal method is to use it not only in designing new products but also in innovative solutions for a given situation.

Target Groups


For business and education
For project managers and their teams 
For Coaches and peoples dreamed of their start-ups 
For everyone who wants to create new products in extremally efficient way

To get certificate you have to finish project and pass exam via skype. You will get ultimate expert certification. After course completion please send email for me marcin.staskopl@gmail.com and we will set-up the exam.

Problem-solving, their creative solving and then seamlessly using the results of this process - in short, you can define the essence of Design Thinking, a method developed by the owner of the company IDEO!
The goal is to get innovative solutions by using such methods to stimulate creativity. As a result, actions are translated into the business schema. Design thinking is based on project thinking, whose task is to provide creative solutions that are ready to be implemented.
One of the advantages of this training is the ability to use it from start-up to corporation. The universal method is to use it not only in designing new products but also in innovative solutions for a given situation.
Target Groups
To get certificate you have to finish project and pass exam via skype. You will get ultimate expert certification. After course completion please send email for me marcin.staskopl@gmail.com and we will set-up the exam.
Biochemistry scientist, Chemical and Process Engineer
Research Experience: Karolinska Institutet, KFU Graz, Polish Academy of Sciences  and more..
I am an open-minded, curious and eager person who is always ready to experience something new. I am more of an analytical person so I alway enjoy solving different types of problems.
Area of freelance work:- Product development from formulation to manufacturing process,- Process optimisation, plan of synthesis,- Chemistry problem solver (biochemistry and cosmetic chemistry)- Food safety expert (proven by certificate)- Chemistry method design- I have finished design thinking course (Luzerne Switzerland) I like creative work.
Science interests: nanocarriers, magnetic carriers, drugs delivery systems, liposome preparationbiochemical assays, fluorescence, two-photon absorption, forensic chemistry, chemical organic synthesis

                        Design Thinking
                      
You have to make project and pass exam via skype to get certification

                        Full course without exam
                      
Course without exam and expert certification



          ©
          By Science
        